Welcome to Season 6 of Competitive Play
It's all fun and games until you get 2cp twice in a row
I've already had my first thrower.
So hyped. I ended at at 2555 last leason, with a career high of 2735. My friend ended at 2982, his career high. We did placements right away and won 2, lost 1, and won 7. I placed at 2845, already my career high, and he at 3210! I think the changes to placements really do make a difference!
ended season at 4033 with a high of 4152. went 7-3 in placements and landed at 4153.

lul
For your own sake, don't get hyped and instead wait a few days before starting your placements. It's always the same chaos at the beginning of every new season and it's no fun to have unbalanced matches
Sitting at about like 1100 right now. I started 2200 in season 3 or 4 and just ran that rating into the ground. Should I even bother with trying to bring it back up? It's so abysmally low that I hardly even play competitive
I liked best of five better than best of three. It gave us a chance to get our shit together and make a comeback. 
I'm so ready to give up on competitive. I got placed at 1855 and I'm almost all the way down to 1100. It's the same reason I pretty much gave up last season: no one wants to communicate, people throw on purpose or leave if they waste their ult once. I don't see the point in trying to improve if I'm consistently losing for reasons out of my control.
Is it me? Or is Bronze/Silvers/Golds mixed in the same games?  
I don't know, Skill-wise I thought I was in Bronze games.
Is it just me or after 2am EST people start playing comp like it's QP? 
Can't wait to see people instalocking Mercy and never even taking the staff out this mid-season.
If someone could give me some tips to get out of silver I will be extremely grateful. I am a flex player and I am not toxic. Just tell me how I should play when my team has two 0 dmg dealing carries say hanzo and widow. I have tried being the healer and also the tank, I don't know how to play around a 0 accuracy widow and /or hanzo. So should I just dps? 
Played all 10 placement matches as a 6-stack in one session. Our starting average SR was around 2600. We managed to win 8, draw 1 and lose 1 game. In the  end our average SR was at 2850, with 2 of us at career high rating. 
In two matches we had a 4-stack + 2-stack (one of those games was the only defeat), all other were 6v6. 


Last season, I started in bronze in the 800's. I ended up in silver in the low 1500's. I didn't realized how much I climbed. This season, ended up in silver. I'm going to climb to gold. 
Came within 12 SR of silver. Then, a 300 point slide featuring eight straight games where someone left.   Bronze is a goddamned prison. 
In the past 10 games of comp I've played, I've had leavers in 8 of them, 7 on my team and one on the enemy team. Is this just going to happen nonstop in silver? I'm starting to wonder if it's even worth playing comp because it's so demoralizing to constantly lose because people can't handle staying for the whole game. Is it always like this or am I just getting really unlucky? it's my first time playing comp since season 2 and I really don't remember it being like this :(
X-post from the megathread in /r/overwatch:

This new comp season feels completely fucked compared to last season.
Last season, I think I won about 6 of my 10 placement matches. I topped out at about CP 3600 or something.

This season, I lost all but 1 of my placements. Got placed at 3100, and in the space of two days have tanked down to 2800. Objectively, I've been absolutely playing my ass off and literally lost like 8 games in a row yesterday alone.

I'm not the greatest player, but I know that I've personally improved a significant amount since last comp season (especially the beginning). Despite that, most of my losses have been complete one-sided stomps.

So yeah I'm not sure if this just shitty luck or what, but something feels very 'off' with this comp season for me personally.
4300 last season and 4 out of 10 games I had players that barely finished DIAMOND last season. Even after placement I was getting players on my team that were legitimately 1300 Elo lower than me. -35 a game because I was supposed to carry dead weight. Not impressed at all so far. 
Did they change something about the Placement-Games? I always placed around midgold and now I'm Plat after my placement which were 5-5.

Well I'm happy because I barely made it last season to plat, so I'm a bit surprised.
[deleted]
If the enemy quits, or if you don't get many medals, will that affect your final score? I have done well as Orisa, Doomfist and Winston so far but none of them get many medals at all.
If someone could give me some tips to get out of silver I will be extremely grateful. I am a flex player and I am not toxic. Just tell me how I should play when my team has two 0 dmg dealing carries say hanzo and widow. I have tried being the healer and also the tank, I don't know how to play around a 0 accuracy widow and /or hanzo. So should I just dps? 
Doing my placements and then this shit happens https://imgur.com/gallery/0pM69

Fuck me, right?
Having fun this season but 2cp
I just won my first placement match and it was the first time I used my mic to communicate. I'm on PS4, so mics are rare (although I have seen a lot more lately), so there was only one other person talking. But I actually tried to make call outs and lead the team. I'm pretty sure most of the other teammates were at least listening. We had a reaper that kept flanking the enemy and kept dying, and I asked him to stay grouped up with us since they kept trying to dive with a D. va and a roadhog, and that helped a ton. I also just kept emphasizing that we need to stay grouped up because me (Zenyatta) can't heal when the reaper and d. Va are pushing too far forward. It worked, and after losing the first round, we won the next two. I know it's just one placement match but that was the most fun I've had in Overwatch in a long time.
I actually won 7 placement matches as mercy, how am I only 1526 in SR?
Strange, did 5/5 for placements. Ended last season with 2862 (also season high since it's my second account where I mostly just play placement matches) and I started at 3401 o_O
I had one account finish at 2200 and place at 2250, but I have another account that's plat, unfinished placements. Should I be at 2250, was I carried? ): 
When someone leaves a game, what should you report them for? It doesn't look like that is one of the categories.
Dropped 200 SR over the weekend and I was 140 from ranking up.  I play mainly to have fun with my squad, but losing a lot is not fun.  When our squad of 3 gets in a rut we go to Arcades and play 3v3 and now 4v4 deathmatch to pick up our spirits.  We win a lot in the arcades btw which helps us get our confidence in our own squad abilities up.  What does your squad do when you're on a losing streak?
Really strange season so far, placed 800 in S3 climbed to 2000 dropped to 1500, 1500 in S4, ended in 1600 but barely played, went 9wins-1loss in S5 and placed in 1700, sitting at 2100 now with 70% winrate over 10 hours. Always considered myself a solid mid silver player since I placed at 26 in S1, I feel extremely boosted. Are there smurfs in low gold? Always thought smurfs would be prevalent in bronze or diamond. 
Anyone know if pre-season/off-season affects mmr?  I had a few bad games where I performed well but my team just wasn't carrying their weight and lost a few games.  I ended up placing below my season high of around 1600 sr.  It seems like no matter how well you perform in the new season mmr seems to really affect your overall sr. 

Granted I am still relatively new to overwatch but I feel like I have improved dramatically since then and have been finding myself placed with a lot of players that are at a lower skill level in terms of performance
Has anyone got any tips for roadhog in this new season ? 
last season i stopped at 2609. after my placements (8 wins 2 draws) i placed at 2603. heLLo? jEFf kaPLAn??? i think i was doing pretty good as dva, on fire, medals, etc 

on top of that, after every loss i lose around 50 SR, a win would get me around 20 SR. yikes man. what am i doing wrong. 
I'm one tricking mei this season. As long as we have at least one tank and at least one healer and we have a hard counter to their pharah I'm sticking to her. It's my turn to play dps this season. 
Hey pplz.

I would like to share my experiences with season 6 so far. Last season I ended on 2492 and decided to do placements with my friends with whom I usually play
All 6 of us came together and played all 10 placements from the same room. It was super fun and we ended with a score of 8-1-1. Had some excellent games against excellent 6-stacks along the way.
We got placed about 200 SR higher than we ended Season 5. I was placed at 2727, which is my career high.
And this is where the shitstorm starts.

After a couple of days I decided to play some solo queue comp. I play tank and support roles and really love to play as a team. However, I couldn't get and communication going from my teammates throughout the period of 3 days that I played solo. I would say Hello, wrote my best heroes, asked everyone (politely ofc) to join team voice, communicated callouts in a polite, calm manner, but my teams were complete and utter shite that would mostly fall apart somewhere in the middle of a match. At that time I thought I was a BAD player and that I deserve to lose. However, when my friends started playing solo, 2 or 3 stack, they reported the same thing: games that feel are out of their hands.

By playing as a 6- stack, we cheated Jeff's retarded hidden MMR and are now being punished for it. That's at least what I think.

Anyone else had a similar experience?
If there was a control only competitive queue I'd never queue into anything else.
Ever since I started playing Sombra i've been excited to play 2cp. 
What maps though. I genuinely enjoy Hanamura and the Lunar whatever. Temple of Anubis and Volyaska can suck a fat dick.
They tweaked defensive respawn times for 2cp again.  It the mode feels better to play I'll know why.
I live for 2CP.  Attacking sucks when you can't come up with a good attack plan, but I love defense so much.
Sombra main, went fine.
It's like the first robin of spring!!
I have already had 4 people quit in my first placement match.....  Great start to the season -.-
Time to test the new report? 
I had a lot of salt in my placements matches so far. I insta-locked widow and it tilted the fuck out of my team even when we were still in spawn. Then it was all about a stagger fest and them telling how much I suck after less than 4 minutes of widow. I love when people underperform so hard that they have to blame it on anyone but themself. 
On average your friend gained/lost 28.5 per match. You gained/lost 36.25 per match. That sounds about normal, no?
My season high was 3147 last season and I ended the season at 3000 (decay).  I placed this season at 3159 after going 4-5-1 and am now over 3200.
Sounds exactly right if you calculate about ~30 loss/gain per match.

Honestly I feel like re-placement is just continuation of your previous skill rating in "hidden" mode for 10 matches.
Already played 6/10, what are you talking about? Everything seems to be fine. And I'm honestly surprised how close my allie's season 5 SR to mine since it's night in eu, and I don't really think too many people are playing now
I lost 7/10 and placed mid diamond (3223). 
Hidden rating does not get reset between seasons meaning you'll still be matched with people similar to your skill. The only difference would be people switching the characters they want to play in a new season.
This is all in your head.  Actual hidden rating used to make games doesn't change between seasons, just SR display.
Wish I had listened to this, dropped from high plat to mid gold by losing 9 games....
If there's one good thing to come out of how disappointing season 5 was, I'm at the point where I have no problem waiting a week or two to jump back into the Competitive. I've always only been able to hold off for a day or two, but now I'm taking my sweet ass time till all the one tricks and quitters get put in their respective places. 


Death match has been a good change of pace. 
Yeah we have a six stack that went in last night because we were excited and we got absolutely wrecked 4 games in a row. I finally realized that we should probably wait until things calm down in about a week or so. We played Seven quick playing matches together after that and dominated on every one but on those competitive matches none of us are above level 200 and there was one match where we were against a team of six people all above level 500. I know your level doesn't necessarily indicate your skill level but holy shit. Matchmaking is ridiculous right now do not go in there
I finished high silver last season, and most of my team a couple games ago said they finished silver or low gold. Seems fine to me.
Lost 9 and one 1 and only ended up 62 SR below what I finished at in season 5. 

Much balance, such wow
If you still enjoy playing competitive matches, why not? Give it a go, see if you can better yourself and your SR.
You should be able to carry at bronze, it'll be an easy climb.
How hard can it be to climb out of bronze? 
Yes! Do it. I did it the other way around, did horrible in my first 10 placements, literally 0-10 in season 3. Started at 1100... dropped to like 800. Now I'm at 2281 with 67%WR, exclusively solo queueing.
As good as it feels to take that 3-2 it feels substantially worse to take the 2-3
You still have that chance
[deleted]
Don't worry about your rank, just play for fun. If you're playing above your rank it will average out and you will climb. The "its my team thats holding me back" mentality is terrible because the 11 other players in your game are all being pulled from the same pool of players. The game doesn't say "oh there will be 6 good players against NotAToyota, and he'll have 5 bad ones to even it out" it just pulls 11 bronze players and puts them in the game with you. Sometimes you get throwers, sometimes the enemy gets throwers. It balances out. Just mute people (because people in bronze aren't going to make good callouts anyway, its just toxicity) and when you get to gold, start communicating again. Trust me, if you play well, you will rise. Good luck :)
Progress update: I've tried focusing on getting really good in QP with 2 heroes in each category: Pharah, Soldier, Junkrat, Mei, D VA, Winston, Ana and Zenyatta. I have fairly good accuracy with them all (ranging from about 55-65% which is well beyond the average player this low.) 

And...I've gone down. In my last 20 comp games, I have won exactly 1, and got 1 draw. And surprise surprise, it doesn't fucking matter how well I play. I still have people leave immediately after the enemy team gets an advantage. I get icewalled by my team's Mei on purpose, no one heals no matter how much I call for it, and no one wants to communicate . I've dropped to almost 700 SR. I'm done, I think with the game in general. I've had my fun, but if trying to improve only brings me farther down, I don't see the point. Thanks for nothing.
2am EDT happens when this comment is 18 hours and 11 minutes old.

You can find the live countdown here: https://countle.com/FlTa47104

---

I'm a bot, if you want to send feedback, please comment below or send a PM.
Nothing good happens after 2 am, remember?

Joke aside, I've got the contrary. After 2 am the game is just full of smurfs and its ABYSMAL.
After midnight PST, I can't make myself get off but I play 100% tilted.

I'm not proud of it, but it's such an addiction, every game ends and nothing in the world feels more important than getting back in there and winning the next goddam game.

I dropped over 1000 SR in a single night that way in S5 (the first season I played)... but frankly, I'm actually where I belong now in mid-bronze. Still not sure how the hell I placed into Gold, other than playing nothing but support and getting matched with teams who protected their support.

But yeah, I imagine the people who are responsible and in control of their emotions/lives probably mostly get off before I do and get some rest.
The gun in Valkyrie got nerfed.
Check a guide on sensitivity and DPI (it's important trust me.) I guess you're on PC? Anyways. 

You should play the role which you are most competent with. If you're going healer and just sit in a corner looking cool you wont accomplish much, if you play Reinhardt and dig a trench on attack you wont accomplish much either.

Pick more all around supports/tanks, Zen great support you get discord and when you learn how to aim you shoot down pharahs from left to right, Zarya is a great can be in the thick of the fight and have the potential to save people. 

Pick what YOU think will have the most impact in both fucking over their team and helping yours. Also try to be more aggressive put on some metal and butcher everything. Stop trying to focus on your own teammates seriously getting pissed off on some idiots you will have to spend ten minutes of your life with will be a waste of time. Accept the loses and learn from them.

Also try a bit of Reinhardt on attack payload, great hero to learn when not to go in and when to hammer everything in your field of view. (Don't hold on to your ult for that perfect moment use them. It's better to FAIL in an ult and learn from it then only using it once per twenty games) Your job as a tank is to create opportunities for your DPS players. (called creating "space" in OW terms i think check it up)
Good luck! Been there, the grind was difficult, and I'm aiming towards Platinum myself now :)
I had 6 leavers in a row lol... I don't think I belong in high elo because I'm bad but I don't think I deserve this level of suffering either
It might be due to server issues, I had a couple of games two days ago where people were consistently leaving and the map was switching (from Dorado to Lunar Horizon Colony, Route 66 to Ilios.) Was strange as hell. But otherwise, the time of day you're playing matters, try different queue timings, and try to befriend as many random people as possible and group queue to minimize the chance of throwers in your team. 
I was getting something simillar. I ended season 5 at 3094 and I've played 4 placement games so far and I think I've only seen one person who wasn't master at the end of the last season. Unless my hidden mmr went up through my 7 game win streak or my off season quick play games I don't know why I'm playing with masters (though it is quite fun to play with people that are better than me).
Maybe there weren't many people on in yiur bracjet, or you had at least somewhat closer mmr than sr.
Could be decayed accounts
Yes they did. Before, they used to put you at a lower level than you were so you could feel good about moving up. Now they place you at the level you should be.
If you don't want to play, then don't play. There's nothing wrong with the other modes.
I feel ya, PS4 players rarely use voice chat but at least you guys managed to win. Want to play comp sometime? PSN TsundereCactus56
I've been doing poor teamwork.  Leaving to me is giving up on the team.  
Truth. Super bummed they switched back to best of 3. 

Honestly what the fuck?
Had a leaver in the first minute of my match both times i got temple of anubis during placements. So sad :( 

Fellow sombra main.
I think you're the only person I've seen on any Overwatch subreddit who actually likes Hanamura. XD
Yes. But before, you were pretty much guaranteed to place a 100 or 200 below your last season SR to give you a feeling if success when you climb right at the start. They removed this.

Also, I saw another guy who lost 9 and won 1, and he placed 62 below. So that is kind if weird.
Yeah this season feels like we will hide your sr for 10 games then give you a number where you would've been if you played these 10 games at the end of last season
Ended last season at 2061. Went 3-7 in my placements and got 2052. 

Maybe my rank has more inertia because the game has 5 seasons of stats for me?
Idk, my first two games were awful. First one everyone else on my team was much lower ranked and I barely squeezed out a draw. Second one everyone was 500 sr higher and although we won, I couldn't do shit for the team. 
I'm pretty sure I played a match last night where the enemy team completed the 2CP map in like 2 minutes. I had a few close matches, but most were very lopsided. 
We got horribly matched with people who had much higher SR than all of us. We have a team of six people but we are all real life friends and four of the people have never played competitive before so matching us against plat and diamond players was not awesome 
I won 9 and lost 1 (you spelled won one by the way), and I placed at my career high, which was just under 300sr ABOVE my ending last season. It is different for everybody dude.
If I remember well, losses and victories don't matter in your placement matches. It's only important once you got your SR.
Yeah placements are a joke 
I don't think I really enjoy the grind that much. Especially at that rank. Last season I felt like I shouldn't have even done placements because ppl will make fun of me for how low it is in qp or arcade games. "How are you even 1100?" Idk feelsbadman 
I played a few Comp games on my buddy's 1200sr account. Got it out of bronze without much effort, and I'm only in plat. If you are better than bronze, you'll get out. They usually make a lot of mistakes that can be punished. 
I don't know. I've yet to really see any climbing. I climbed out of gold a couple seasons ago on the ps4 but idk the pc account just seems too low to revive.
Its hard when you are on defence with 5 idiots that all try to attack the enemy spawn and, wonder why they die (enemy has infininte health in spawn and zero walk back time) and then they all have the long walk back and the payload by this time has made half its journey. 

You cannot carry 5 complete idiots that insist on attacking spawn.
IDK dawg I've been here for three seasons.
I've been stuck between 1400-1480 for a long time now. I'm not sure what to do. I think part of the problem is that I hardly play offense or defense because people instalock those, so I end up filling with tank or support.
Yeeaah I guess you're right...
It can be difficult to get six strangers who will never meet irl to work together, especially when half of them don't talk. I liked having an extra round to pull it together. My favorite games were the long ones where we made a comeback from 0-2. I understand that it made the matches long and unenjoyable for some people though. 
But it's not fun, that's the whole reason I'm so ready to leave. When I get gold eliminations as Lucio every game, what's even the point? And I don't need to mute because no one talks, they just get quietly toxic and throw. I just played a game where we lost round one on Hanamura and my ENTIRE TEAM left. It's barely even a game this low, and I'm sick of it. I know there's an equal chance for the enemy team to get a team this bad, but I have yet to see it.
Thanks Bot!
So did her flight speed and everything else that was amazing about her on the PTR. RIP good Mercy. 
Good riddance. There's no reason Mercy should be able to frag out like that. She's the purest healer in the game and should stay that way.
Ya i main mcree and I have been told that I can use him till high Plat as I am now. I have read about all them mouse settings too. Regardless thanks for the advice. I am pretty much experienced at this game from a game sense perspective since I am at my 5th prestige. Been watching stylosa, my overwatch and overwatch central. I try to incorporate all that they say into my game play.

The problem I am having now is that even though I can cree very well I have to give up dps to other players since they lock in. Even if a lock in before and politely ask them to consider giving me dps they ignore me. Hence I fill what I think is most appropriate for the team. Eg- lacking healer need tank I usually go hog or zarya. Need main tank against pharah I go dva. Need a burst heal and I have genji so I go ana. Playing a full dive I go zenyatta. But what should I pick when my damage dealers are a widow, hanzo and a torb.

I would be really grateful if you could give some tips. I have tried playing the usual rein and or dva etc just doesn't work cuz they don't get consistent picks and shoot rein shields.
Should I play a more aggressive tank like zarya or hog? I try but I just fail to clear chokes all by myself.. Maybe I am doing something wrong...

Any tips on the above would be really appreciated
Thanks for your previous advice. 
Thanks! Congrats on Platinum!
I'm sure it's a great learning experience! Just super frustrating for me as an individual. 
Don't think a season high of 3200 is decayed. 
Hell yeah man. I'll add you soon, or you can add me (Cashmerelogan8). What heroes do you main/prefer?
I'm glad. Rolling the dice for "will this be a 10 minute game or a 45 minute brawl?" was always a bummer.
I am not.
It feels less competitive to me, are they going to do this in OWL?
Does it count if I like defending on Hanamura B? :P
I love Hanamura but to be fair, I'm Bronze.
Got placed higher them ended s5. Only one game we had a guy with dcs, but they had their leaver too. So damn balanced lol
Same here man. I just played my first two games and there was zero communication except from me. My first game I solo tanked, but I could have played better. However, in my second game I played Tracer, a dps I have grown to like and I had 3 golds in dmg, elims, and obj kills. I feel as if there was nothing else I could do. Had one healer the whole game until the last minute.
Just had some rough games. One game the team refused to play tank or join voicechat. Their Ana, Soldier, Genji, and Widow all blew.
SR != MMR.

SR decays, MMR doesn't. When the SR difference between teams is big, there's usually one or more people on the lower rated team that have massively decayed.
That sounds like one of your group had a fairly high MMR, even if they had no experience in comp. The shift from QP to comp is very abrupt, but they might place fairly high if they honed what they already know a bit.
I went from 1100 to 2444 last season.  Just play.
How much effort are you putting into it?  Like are you just getting your 10 placements in and calling it good or what?
If you're really good with one of the offense/defense heroes what worked for me was telling people I'm really really good at them and they'd usually let me play them. You probably dont need anymore than 1 tank and 1 mercy at our SR tbh, you could do fine with just that
Ill never understand how people didn't like best of 5... Control maps are the only maps I enjoy playing in this game. I hate 2 CP. Now that its best of 3 it just goes by too quick. Wish they'd allow u to que only in certain maps that'd be fun as hell. Would never leave contorl maps.
Lucio is tough to carry out with. If you want to play support, mercy is great because you can easily fix your teammates mistakes. DPS is great too because just a couple of kills on healers can give your team a huge advantage. High impact flankers are really good for this.
I almost want to say, get a second account and see if your placements put you into Silver or Gold, so you can go from there. 
What should she do?  Every hero has to be worth their slot on the team.  Ana has 300 effective HP, can outheal Mercy, snipe the enemy, peel for herself, and negate all enemy healing on a 10 second cooldown.  Before, Mercy was worth the slot because she could pretty reliably cancel Grav+Nano-blade.  Now all she can do is negate a lucky scatter arrow every 30 seconds.
When you get a torb on attack you pray. Remember this, OW is a team game the people in your rating is on average the same skill level as you etc. The trick is to progressively do better and better, every moment you feel "stuck" in your rank try to figure out what your doing wrong. Keep this mindset for ANY game out there, every single person who plays OW does something wrong every single game so don't ever feel bad for it. The trick is to KNOW when you did something wrong. Question EVERY death you have!  

When it comes to picking DPS it's kinda hard the majority of people loves this role, you can ask for the role if two others already picked it (BUT don't be a dick about it) if no one answers you just fill in. It's a team game help the idiots secure a win. (Ana is quite difficult to play, generally in my experience you can pick Zen and get a better deal out of it so pick Zen more) 

The trick with chokes is to not stand still in them, generally in lower rating people are passive. If you play Reinhardt remember you gain ult charge extremely quickly and everyone pretty much stands on the same spot. Firestrike into them hammer a bit in the choke and you got Earthshatter ready. You shouldn't stay in the choke for to long the enemy also builds up ult charges, when your ult is ready use it and rush in (if you or anyone else manages to secure a kill just yell at em to get in) tell them on the mic. Give feedback on your shield status if the enemy have a pesky widow or something dangerous. 

If they have a Rein try to keep track on when he gets his ult, (boils down to experience Reinhardt is kinda like a mind game and i would say that playing him helps you all around).

There is times when to be defensive and to be aggressive in OW. Even on Defense you should generally be aggressive don't give the enemy a breathing room. (Hog, Dva and Zarya are off tanks they work quite well with a Rein or a Winston which are both main tanks. Orisa doesn't exist so we ignore her ^^!)

Check out "OneAmongstMany" a youtuber/streamer who makes coaching videos generally for lower ratings and he touches a lot on the fundamentals.  Sorry if this is a rambling mix, but sleep is for the weak and my brain is on fire. If you ever get a torb, hanzo and a widow on your team pick something that can help them. It's situational pick what you think will HELP them. 
I may be part of the problem for placements, masters six stacking with silvers isn't great for matchmaking. But it is the only time I can play comp with my friends.
tbf my placements place me in diamond and i don't play more than my placements and maybe 1 or 2 matches. My buddy who got to GM easily says i'm better than him in most aspects (healing, tanking, counterpicking. While he is better at dps)
I agree, best of 3 is great. if it's a tight game it will go 3 rounds, if we  are being rolled or vice versa, then it will be over faster.
I mean, what is literally every payload/double cap map to you then?
It's always been best of three in pro games afaik
Feels way less competitive.
Yeah I've played 15 matches over my 2 accounts and I only had a few that were TOTAL landslides. It seems like they may have improved the match maker silently. 
>I just played my first two games and there was zero communication except from me

Not saying this was you, but my rapidly growing pet peeve is people who only communicate to complain about the lack of communication, but never say anything specific about strategy.
we actually had 3 with previous SR scores, one mid gold, one high gold, and one low plat. I know that losing your placements isn't necessarily a bad thing but it really took the wind out of us. We decided to build some team synergy and did 7 QP matches in a row and decimated the other team in all of them, so we're not like bad - just not as good as the teams we're matching in comp
I'm playing comp a couple times a week, at least one match per session; season 4 I got 20 hours just on Reinhardt but definitely not as much as some people.
I like control and payload a lot. Hybrid is difficult because people usually need to swap after capping the point, but they typically don't, and 2 CP is of the devil because of spawn locations and overtime stalling. 

I wish we could choose what type of map we could queue into, but people would probably find a way to exploit it and get lots of SR quickly. I kinda want the system from TF2 where you can vote on two maps but I'm not sure if it would be possible to implement with the type of game Overwatch is.
Lucio was just an example of the point I'm trying to make. DPS is always useless, and if I pick it there's never a healer or tank so the entire team just chain-deaths the whole game.
I know this gets into the debate about what level things should be balanced at...

But fwiw, Ana can only outheal Mercy if you're good at her. Mercy is a way more effective healer at low skill tiers; she has no quick escape if she misses her dart (or if more than one enemy dives her), requires line of sight and accurate aim while healing.

Also, one thing Mercy can do that you didn't mention is the damage boost. I'm honestly not quite sure how significant that is, but it's something.

By the way, I'm not really saying you're wrong. I know nothing, I'm a newbie and a scrub, just giving my uninformed opinion.
Thanks for all the tips man! I really appreciate it. Gonna concentrate more on these areas now. Hope I improve. 
I love the Rein mind game. I usually lose, but it's so much fun. Also Rein vs Orisa.
I'm hoping it will discourage people who use KoTH maps for "practice."

I've run into a lot of matches in the past where people switch heroes for no reason after a 2-0 lead and play something off-meta they don't have much experience with because they see that lead as a "buffer" to practice. They basically throw for 2 more rounds and then try to win again in the last round. Vice versa, I've seen people basically throw playing a hero they suck with for 2 rounds and then switch to their main and cause a reverse sweep.

They're just artificially prolonging the match and risking a loss for their team because they felt like messing around.
Not that long.
Perhaps I don't play as often as others but I have never had a 2CP map last as long as even an average "2-3 finish" KOTH. The only time I have ever left a competitive game in progress was when a KOTH game lasted for *almost an hour,* and once it became clear overtime in the final round was just not going to stop I had to dip because I was going to be late for work.

On the one hand, I felt impressed by the matchmaking putting two remarkably similar teams against esch other. On the other hand, what the fuck yo, we could have done three escort games in that time. 

It made it a real deterrent for me. I fucking hate leavers and I know it probably screwed my team but it was ridiculous.
[deleted]
They stated they were improving the match maker at gamescom.
An idea would be to get good at a flanker, I placed ~800SR in a Season 3 and played mostly Reinhardt up to that point. He's actually useless at that SR since everyone trickles, and Lucio was not very helpful since my positioning or my teammate's positioning would lead me to heal unreliably. I would often be caught out unable to heal anyone. Meanwhile, if I played Zenyatta, I could reliably 1v1 most DPS up until I reached 2000SR, with the added benefit of healing. Apart from that, I've found that sticking to one person in particular and playing with them leads to 2v1s most of the time, and is really helpful. (In other words, pocket healing the most effective after in your team.) If supporting has gotten tiring, After the Roadhog buff, he seems to be pretty self sustainable. Maybe you could give him a try? Don't give up :) 
No worries man, just keep a positive attitude and take 50 SR at a time. Show em no mercy kill everything in your eyesight! 
Its probably the thing i love the most about OW, if your just slightly better with the shield stuff you just dominate. 

Its really sad when you lose it though :/
come to think of that, you are absolutely right. people did that all the time, now they can't mess around like that and can save that shit for QP and Arcade.
I think people are trying to farm their per-hero winrate up.  To what end, I don't know.

People are still making weird swaps at 1-1 this season.  You lose the first round, change the comp dramatically, win the second round... and then people switch again.  Overwatch is a game about switching, I know, but if what you have works, why not stick with it?
Maybe the escort and 2cp games just feel so much longer to me. And now the KOH matches will all feel incredibly short. And I love KOH. Lijiang is my religion.

To put it this way: I'm literally never disappointed when a KOH match comes up, but maps like Volskaya and Gibraltar really fucking kill me.
Uhhh no it was best of 5. You needed 3 wins to win the map
Roger that sir! 
I didn't realize it was a thing at first... Figured reins just kept to themselves and held up a shield. Then I got dominated by an enemy Rein who carried their whole team in a silver match, and was blown away by how bad he would drill me and my teammates, and how well he could keep his shield up. I had to watch him the whole time, and that taught me so much about playing him.

Since then I've been about 50/50 in brinze Rein fights.

My biggest challenge is I'm not good at being opportunistic. If I'm looking for a chance to pin someone, I'm to eager to go in. If I'm focusing on my teammates and on my shield, I'm too slow to recognize opportunities.
That's too bad, it's been much better for me. In my matches people try a lot harder in the 2nd round than they used to. I'm also climbing faster because I can get in more matches with the shorter KoTH games. Losing 3-2 in the last round was always infuriating and meant you just had a match that was twice as long for the same gain/loss as another game mode.

I'm probably getting in another 2-3 matches per gaming session this way.
Oh yeah, please don't think I dislike control maps or KOTH gameplay. They would just be too long. I don't get to play as much as I used to and, frankly, it's disheartening to just get a single game out of a session.
OK I tried but I keep getting bronze players man. Should I heal when there isn't any other healer? I healed the entire game but our team was just.. To put it blatantly they sucked ass.
Pardon my words lol. 
Initiating fights with the Charge is kinda hard and you need everyone on the same page. Use it more as a close ranged thing. There is also a jump+shield trick (Check it on youtube) which will make the play style more aggressive. 

When you wanna go in ask yourself if your gonna die. Taking advantage of the enemies mistakes is extremely important but if you yourself die without gaining an advantage that's bad. Don't hold in your ult either if you do things correctly you should have it up quite often. 

Play Winston as well, both tanks focus on initiating fights so while both play differently you will become a better Rein/winston player by playing both. 
I feel you, my friend. Good luck! Hope you find some time to play this season! 

Friday 'This Week I Learned' Thread - 2017, Thread #22
Hello OU,

Welcome to our weekly **This Week I Learned** thread. TWIL will be held every Friday and is used to showcase *anything* that you've learned the past week playing Overwatch.

> TWIL is a broad discussion thread, as long as your post is **Overwatch Related** it won't be removed. However, please be following our [Posting Guidelines](https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/about/rules).

*****

Visit our [Event Archive](https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/wiki/eventarchive) to view past discussions.

Orisa, Torb, Sym, Junkrat &Mercy comp problems
I'm having trouble against this comp, particularly on first point Hollywood. I thought pharah widow might do it, but no luck. Tank diving maybe, but junkrat has so much damage. 

Anyway I'd appreciate adviceYeh its pretry much cancer :/ only way to counter is with your own cancer!.  Pharmercy would do good against sym junk and torb, also winston/d.va is good wirh reaper.  Junkrat is a solid option
All five of them suffer from sombras ultra, maybe try that with a zarya + big damage dealer combo?
I was in the same situation, I can imagine the feeling to play against that comp. I main Tracer, but I adapted myself to play Phara and ask for a Mercy to follow me and a Lucio to keep the team healed. 

1) kill the turret.
2) destroy the shield gen \ teleporter build from Symmetra
3) keep the enemy Mercy down

If everyone will do his little job, the team will win easily.

If Orisa's shield protects the turret, a symmetra should be effective there, cause her right click attack goes through shields, but I would say Junkrat's the best option there.
Watch the new video by stylosa. It addresses this exact issue. 
Junk shreeds shields fast but you know what kills them faster? Attack bastion, noone expect a bastion on attack and before they realise what the plan is they lost the point.
you have the right idea: dive! dva and winston can protect themselves from the turret dmg and your dps (should) be able to clean up. just gotta be coordinated vs turrets. you also NEED a flanker like tracer or genji to kill sym's tps. if they're all standing behind orisa shield like you implied, dragonblade and pulse bomb will be effective.

tl;dr, to beat a turret team you have to dive and flank because you will not beat them from range.
Go bastion and delete the Orisa and her shield. Just make sure to recon as well otherwise you're memeing
If they're in that corner a shielded junkrat can rain hell on them. I know the enemy rat can shoot at you too, but you can move around to minimize it. They can't really budge from the turret spot. 
Counter junk. 
Cheese them back with things like pharmercy. Maybe get a good flanker that is capable of destroying shield/teleporter. And a dva can definitely help, problem is getting your team to counter switch but this team is definitely shit to play againsnt. I remember getting this exact matchup and we couldn't clear point 1 so we just went full cancer too on our defense and won lol.
Sombra does good against cancer.  Control health packs. Build ult then dive with team
Attack Sym and Junkrat are a fairly effective way to facilitate an initial push and break their front line.

The main issues with this comp are:

* Orisa's shield refreshes so quickly that it's hard to damage the heroes
* Torb and Junkrat and Sym can deal tons of damage without moving to the front line
* Even if you break the shield, Sym's turrets are a huge obstacle to pushing in

Attack Sym can do tons of damage through the shield, enough to significantly hurt Orisa and destroy Torb's turret quickly. She's also an effective way to eliminate the opposing Symmetra's turrets.

Junkrat is a great shield buster, and can do significant damage behind the shield with proper aim.

Of course, the rest of your comp needs to provide sufficient cover and healing to make this happen. Dva, Lucio, and Rein or Zarya are a good balance.
i was already against this comp and there are some heroes (that worked for me). 1st is dive comp with sombra while sombra is distracting enemy team your team can push. 2nd is to fight cancer with cancer (basically same comp vs same comp) and 3rd option is phar-mercy with dive comp (again pharah and mercy distracting others while your team is pushing in)
Pharah/junk/mercy/dva/winston and lucio
A solid Winston along with a long range attacker will make easy work of Symmetra and torbs turrets. After that, a group push can easily overcome this comp.
Ultimately this comes down to Junkrat being the best DPS option on both sides because he's broken now. 
I am on a competitive team, and I’m the main tank. Winston is incredibly effective to getting a pick on mercy then diving out. What you can do is “bubble dance”. Place your shield, then bait the person inside it while you go outside. And when they go out, yo go in, so on so forth. This is good against junk and reaper. Formerly a DPS main, if your widow is in the right position, then you should have at least a little success taking sym or torb out, even Orisa too. Junk sometimes counters, depending on the map and the other tank they run. Double barrier? Junk widow or junk pharah. Hope this helps!

Edit: another thing to remember is KEEP MERCY DEAD. She can’t rez if she isn’t alive.
All you have to do is take Zarya. 100 Charge 100% of the Time.
As someone who has shifted from Rein to Zarya as my primary tank, this sounds like 100 charge all game to me.

I've been running a diving deathball type setup to beat this with pretty good success.

Team looks like this; Winston, Zarya, Zen, Lucio, Reaper, X (Sombra/Pharah/Junk/Hanzo/Genji/Soldier/Mcree have all worked depending on the map.)

Basically in this setup you poke until Zarya is 100 charge, and your team is in a good spot on ults. Zarya at this point is one of your DPS, and she and Winston clear sym turrets then dive the hell out of either orisa or junk. Orisa is the easiest pick as Zarya with her giant cow hit box, plus you get a ton of ult charge off her, and her being down creates a lot of room for your team to work with. From there it's down to just picking the closest target to your team and focusing with discords quickly. 

From the perspective of Zarya, if you are consistently landing your right clicks here during the poke battle/team fights it is easy to get an ult every time your reaper or other DPS has one up to combo. 

Hope that helps.
Yes, as an Orisa main, Sombra can give me a rough time, she's also very susceptible to D.Va bombs, just wait for her to put down a new shield
Kill the turret, KILL THE TORB. Otherwise every step is followed by Kill The Turret Again. I really do hate that turret.
I'll echo this. You either need damage boosted artillery (Pharah/Junkrat + Mercy) or Attack Symmetra to beat this. 

The dive version is running Sombra + Winston. 
Came to say this ^. He talks coordination. It's really important to beat this set up. That's also a problem depending on what level you play at. People tend to run off and do their own thing or not want to change character to counter in most of my games it seems. 
He put out an actual good video?
Shh! Keep it down! You're gonna give it away!
You can also swap Junkrat for Bastion, but as others have mentioned you need to balance sentry and recon modes - don't let yourself get melted by Sym or Junkrat because you're stationary all the time. 
Works in theory won't work in practice Orisa and torb just shotgun into winstons face, if the sym is any good shell right click then microwave and your dead in seconds 
Junkrat has always been one of the best ways to deal with cancerous comps, between his range and shield busting. I don't think the buffs increase his effectiveness much under these circumstances.
As a Torb main, I second this. The second my turret is down or going down, I'll put a new one up somewhere else. I'm not always babysitting the turret either, especially when I'm just using the turret as a distraction so I can shoot from somewhere else. 
Torb main here, kill me first. I'm not waiting for you to delete a pet turret before I'm already in place to drop a distraction turret and be off turning your corpses into armor for my friends. 
Winston main here....doesnt work. Orisa shreds my barrier and shoots my face before my cooldowns are done. She's basically a mobile Bastion with a shield. I have her more than bastion at times. If she's teamed up with a bastion too....I get tilted off the earth's axis. 
Best counter to a cheese comp is communication and coordination! Couldn't have said it better my self 
The mine is 100 damage. And he has two of them now. That means he can delete most of the squishes pretty reliably and finish off two weakened opponents at the same time.

I know Blizzard gave him two mines to help with his mobility, but don't sleep on that extra damage. Plus they both give some pretty intense knockback and can mess up pushes.
It did though, just not directly. The buffs made it much harder for flankers to deal with him, which indirectly makes him better at everything else because he'll be alive more and flankers will put less pressure on him.
I played Winston into this comp, we had a Dva kill the turrets while I focused on keeping mercy from playing overwatch
Not to mention Junkrat and the turret shredding him once his shield is down.
*120 damage

It proves your point better
Any good junkrat was just useing grenade+mine to one shot people before the buff, and any good junk still is. That combo is much faster than mine+mine. Its not very hard to stay out of the range, i think people getting mad about this buff need to calm down and think about how they can outplay it. It really isnt huge.


The ult is a different story
Yeah, his mines could definitely stand to do less damage now so the focus is more on mobility.

But my point was more that in this particular situation - breaking through a cancerous comp at a choke so you can even *attempt* a push - his extra mine doesn't change the game that much. Because the real problem is breaking through that initial wall of force, and Junkrat's primary fire is the most effective way for him to deal with Orisa and Torb.
He'll probably get a damage nerf to the mines fairly soon, I'm guessing. 

Tip for Positive Mindset: why falling SR probably doesn't mean you got worse
It can be very discouraging when your SR takes a big dive, especially after you've already been playing the game for a year.

But here's the rub: remember, SR is a time-weighted average of your "Hero by Hero SR", for all the Heroes you are spending time playing.

We all know our SR takes a dip when we pick up a new Hero. But it's more than that. It also dips when we first increase our proportion of play time on a more challenging Hero.

If you play 90% Lucio and 10% Tracer, then shift to 50/50, your SR will probably fall some. Tracer is harder to play well. But that's a function of the game's limited lens, not you being a worse Overwatch player. You could still pick Lucio back up after a few months and quickly be 95% of the Lucio you always were.

This makes intuitive sense, but I've never seen it said this way before. A more obvious example: Your "Genji SR" might be <500, but the game will only know that if you play Genji on comp, and it will only be factored in for the amount of time you played Genji.

The game uses only one SR number because it has to. But it can't see Heroes you have in your bag if you aren't playing them. More importantly, it gives less weight to those same Heroes if you are still playing them but playing them less, and then more weight when you start playing them more.

All to say, if you're gravitating to more challenging Heroes, or learning Heroes to flex to in order to play better into your counters, you'll dip. But you didn't turn into a bad player.

tl;dr Here's a way to fight the bad feels. Your SR is accurate. But it's limited. It's a weighted average of the Heroes you're currently playing. That's just the game's lens. It has to be that way, but you didn't get worse. You almost certainly got better.Also, it's worth noting that simple probability dictates that - when you're around your "correct" SR - you will eventually encounter losing streaks and a reduced SR. Just as you'll encounter win streaks eventually. It's the result of the 50/50 balancing Blizzard does.
After my 900 Sr losing streak i can say with confidence regardless of what you do a huge parts of all matches is decided regardless of how well you do.
I hope whatever op mentioned is true. (probably not). Still hoping.... 
Mathematically, it kind of has to be true. Your SR is definitely a weighted average of the Heroes you're actually playing.

There's a Hero on the roster that you never play. The SR system has no idea of your skill with that Hero. If you played one game with that Hero, it would contribute one game of weight.

This is fact, not opinion. If my facts are wrong, someone correct me.

So if you're playing new Heroes, or playing harder Heroes, all else equal, your SR will fall.

Not saying that's what happened every time somebody's SR takes a dive. But if you shifted your Hero pool, there's a good chance that had something to do with it. 👍🏻
I hope whatever you said is true and I also hope sometime in the future season 10 perhaps the report system actually starts working. (yes I get people in my games who lock widow and then troll and even ask us to report, I report and block and I still get the same widow in my game 6 games in one day.) That's I simply said I hope. Everything wrong with overwatch, everything wrong with this community, everything wrong with me probably should get fixed by season 10.

Tldr
I am sorry for the rant. 

so does dm (arcade) use a different tickrate or something?
why is it I can hit anything in dm yet it feels like my shots dont actually land in comp? maybe because i get more fps? truly feels like a different game I think it's cause you are more focused on aiming compared to playing in comp, where you keep track of ults, cooldowns etc
I was wondering if it was lower, i click sometimes and nothing fires. I've never had it in ranked/qp/arcade before. It reminds me of street fighter 4 on laggy connects: sometimes you'd sonic boom and get nothing, not even a jab, as though that frame never happened.
It's because everyone's in shitty positions, confined to close range, fighting in duels, and have zero backup. Of course its easier to get kills
I feel the same, but with me it's mostly because I have big lagspikes in comp while I never had that in DM.
Same problem happens in CSGO, people that wreck in dm (matchmaking is non-existent for this mode, just like in overwatch) then can't hit anything in competitive. In comp you play more carefully, take less chances and avoid exposing yourself, and the enemies do so as well. Basically, you have less opportunities to shoot harder shots.

Or maybe you are just nervous playing comp, it happened for some time to me in CSGO. I was so worried about losing my rank (funny thing is I was at a pretty low rank back then) I could only focus on not fucking up, so my aim was shaky and inconsistent, and that led to more fuck ups. It's a feedback loop that I could only break by not giving a fuck about the outcome and just enjoy the game while always playing my best.
I swear DPS roadhog is back when I play him in DM , but if I take him into comp I can't hit anything. Probably because there are more shields, and people protecting their teammates so it's hard to get a good hook
Your frame rate affects input lag which affects gameplay. If you get better fps in that mode your input lag is potentially lower.  
I find the opposite. In comp, I have high accuracy and kills on stuff like soldier. Can't play Genji, Tracer. Come DM? I win with Genji constantly. Cannot place top 3 with soldier. 
This. Comps a very different animal when compared to DM and TDM. It's a lot harder trying to get kills when so much is going on during team engagements. I sometimes have trouble knowing what I'm shooting at because it's so much. 

I'll have no trouble dominating with McCree on DM but when up against a dva absorbing my shots with Winston and a tracer jumping the back line on my healers who I need to protect with a pharah spamming down rockets pocketed by a mercy and a Lucio all up in my business, the focus spreads very wide. You have a lot of check marks you have to do to be successful in a team engagement and you gotta keep it all balanced so it can be very overwhelming at times, especially when someone isn't doing there part. 

DM and TDM, killings the name of the game. Although with TDM, I have noticed a lot smaller team fights forming now. 
Tick rate doesn't have that effect no matter how low it is. Your shots still fire, timing may be different though. If you are getting nonexistent shots that's a different issue
Sounds like packet loss, check your internet connection
To be fair, Genji isn't super difficult to win with, as long as you aren't total garbage with him. I am by no means good on him (or any other DPS character for that matter) and I can still place top 3 on him pretty consistently.
tbh you don't have 4 genjis flying at you in comp either. 
I am complete and utter trash with him. It's why I'm glad DM exists so I can practice him and not fuck over my teams.

What can I do to carry 4-5 dps in my team?
I can never heal, because I'm either healing them or pushing the payload, but not both at once.

I can't tank, because I will only shield 1 out of 5 allies, or because I will go down in some seconds while contesting alone.

Or I can pick dps, which I suck on and will die as since I have no healer or tank then.Play lucio. Gives your team sustain and speed. Amp it up also heals most DPS characters to full HP. You can contest the payload and enable your team 
My go-to move is Zen.  You can amplify the glass cannon effect with your discords, and they're squishies in regards to healing.

Zen and Lucio are usually the best options because they boost the dps' ability to get picks while providing some healing.  It usually works better than trying to keep them alive with Mercy or Ana, they'll die if the fight isn't secured quickly no matter how much healing you put out.
play 6th dps and fuck it
Zen works great in these situations since the only defense a 5 dps comp has is killing the enemy really really fast. Zen enables that really well with discord orb
If my team is the better DM players, then I use Mercy. The second chance helps a lot. If I have to frag too, then I'll Zen if they don't have snipers or we have ways to deal with their divers. If I'd just die as Zen then Lucio is next choice. 

With 5 DPS, I find healing is more important than tanking. Otherwise I'd just go Roadhog. 
>because I'm either healing them or pushing the payload, but not both at once.

Of course you can do both. You push the payload and tell them come to the cart for heals. You can't follow the DPS all around the map but you can push & heal. 
lucio rein and orisa are your best options but you can also ask someone to play sombra (because she can hack health packs and can be a good disruptor and healer while you're playing tank)
Personally although I can play Lucio I am not very good. I am good with zen and ana both of which are risky in a 4-5 dps comp if the enemy have a genji, tracer or a Winston . If they do, I switch to the one tank on which I feel I can survive, sustain and carry with.
Its roadhog. Zarya can do the same but I am better at hog.

I have quit playing my main heroes aka 76, cree, dva, ana only to concentrate on mastering hog the same way I put 100 hours on cree.
Once I reach a point when I have 95% hook accuracy I believe I may finally get out of my elo. I am currently at an average of 65%, hoping I improve. 
Go Lucio for payload attack and control, otherwise Zen IMO. Mercy's throughput isn't as much of a game changer when everyone is squishy. Zen's discords are super helpful in getting kills and if they listen to your call outs, help to coordinate the team. 4/5 dps can work if you work as a unit. Lucio similarly encourages the team to play near you. 

Both of their healing is pretty good at keeping squishies topped off. 
Sym.  You're a cooldown-based tank w/barrier, you're the answer to shields, shield gen serves as both tank *and* healer, and the turrets provide an advantage in the local area.

She has the highest winrate for a reason.
I can't believe people think "carrying" is an option. Let alone the 4-5 DPs myth. One or two off games are bound to happen, but you will never consistantly get them.




You shouldn't be able to carry at your rank. Because your rank is the one that everyone in your game is at. If you could consistantly play better than your teamates, then you wouldn't be at your rank.



Just play normally, learn about positioning and game sense. Use communication and teamwork. It takes longer than "going x to carry" but you get more out of the game and actually play at your rank. A lot of players have this mindset that "I can carry, I saw my teammate do x wrong", but they don't realize that focusing on your own gameplay is the best way to climb.
I believe this post has been made 29101729271 times
i mean, that is my current strat and reason why my winrate on widow/hanzo/other dps is at 0% :-)
Your answer is so simple. However, people are not simple creatures. When I have had teams like this, they don't want to come to me. They just want to flank to the other side of the enemy and then spam the "need healing" button. If it was as simple as getting the team to group up, then I doubt we'd be seeing 20 of these posts every day.
With "carry" I meant : How can I increase my teams win conditions instead of being a burden.
its ridicolous that the game causes this post for such a long period of time

what do you expect? blizzard set the priority for dumbass skin and event instead of more heroes per year

Advise on starting/coaching a team
So my university this semester is putting money into forming a bunch of new teams like wrestling, equestrian, etc. As a part of this initiative they are letting the newly formed gaming/tabletop organization create esports teams. This is where I come into the picture, since I'm the highest ranked overwatch player at the school so I've been tasked with forming, playing with, and coaching a team for esports.

So my main questions are: how to evaluate players for recruitment, once players are chosen what is the process of molding the players to specific roles, what do I need to learn to be the best coach/team captain for my team. If there are any other esports team leaders out there I would love to connect and learn on how to make this team the best it can be. 

TLDR: university is building teams and I've been tasked to make an overwatch esports team, where do I start? r/OverwatchLFT is by far the best resource for finding players. 

In terms of trying players out, you should ask to look at their statistics, in terms of all time rating. You need to ask them questions such as their experience in team play, and any other questions you want. I've been the leader of 3 teams so far, and I still haven't found an optimal way to try players out. 

In terms of leadership, you need to get the idea that you're the leader out of your head completely when you get into the game, unless you're the shotcaller. Your shotcaller is your leader. There is a problem that I've found happens to me and other people I know leading teams where they end up talking too much because they're in the mindset they should be leading. 

You need to be scrimming regularly, and get used to playing in a team. 

If you have a problem with a player being toxic, you need to immediately confront this once you're done, and make them understand that by being toxic they are becoming the weak link, and therefore will be kicked. However before you bring this up you need to do everything you can to find a solution. 

This really wasn't a great guide, I know, but if you ever need answers, I've been the leader of 3 teams, I've been part of 5 teams, and I know how shit works. Don't hesitate.
Shoot me a message on Discord and I'll help you out where I can: Ehloanna#4519
Thanks for your reply, do you have a discord so we can talk more about this?

As for trying to find players my university is pretty small and so I've already met and played with all of them for a little bit. Their ranks are about golds and slivers, I've had some of my friends that I've met though overwatch look at them and they said that they need a lot of work.

I should have put more info about myself and my pool. currently I've been working on being a lucio shotcaller for a theoretical team in the future but since this popped up I've been working on other roles to familiarize myself on how they work. 

I totally agree with you on toxicity so that's a great tidbit of knowledge.

Is there a place (when we start beginning) that we can find scrims relatively quick?

Thanks again for you help 
Invite incoming 
> should of 

 Did you mean should have? 

-------------------------------------- 
This is a bot account.
Thank you grammar bot I'll remember that in the future 
Good bot.
Thank you AspiringCake for voting on Should\_have\_listened.  

This bot wants to find the best and worst bots on Reddit. [You can view results here](https://goodbot-badbot.herokuapp.com/).  

 ***  

^^Even ^^if ^^I ^^don't ^^reply ^^to ^^your ^^comment, ^^I'm ^^still ^^listening ^^for ^^votes. ^^Check ^^the ^^webpage ^^to ^^see ^^if ^^your ^^vote ^^registered!

I have some questions for OR15A mains
I've tried playing her but it always ends in disaster, usually the enemy team just rushes me and I die. So I'd like to ask OR15A mains some questions to help me out.

Where should I position myself and my shield? 

Should I use my shield off CD? 

When should I use my halt ability? 

When is a good time to ult and should I place the bongo beside me? 

When is she an ideal pick and when is she not? 

Can I solo tank OR15A?

What can I do against dive?I have a 62% win rate on her right now, and since season started it's become clearer and clearer to me that Orisa might be a great hero to climb with this season. 

Use halt to:
Fuck up Bastions position
Keep enemies from rushing you
Pull enemies off the map

Place shields where they allow you and your teammates good positioning.
Orisa can place new shields fast enough to deal with spamming junkrats - halt him into line of sight and end him. 

My shield is never off cool down for long. 

When rushed by enemies you should enter gold mode, or whatever it's called, and try to dance around your barrier, just like a Winston would. Your added armor, effective dancing and halting enemies away from you can be effective. 

If your team is the kind that can't stay together for more than a second, you're fucked. 
Just picked up Or15a this season. Went 7-3 on placements and landed at 1800 (for what it is worth).  I noticed that if my team can't kill anybody you are going to have a bad time. My three losses came from my team being incapable of securing kills. Spamming the group up call has helped a bit, but sometimes your team is just gonna do whatever they want (console btw)

Disclaimer: I do not think I am amazing not an authority on Orisa, just love the Bongo of Justice. 
You should shoot the shield straight up before the game starts i takes 6 sec to come down and it goes on cd when you shoot it so you should have the next 900hp shield in 2 sec or something.
Played a lot of orisa last season, even climbed to 3400 with her. With her new buffs she's actually a killing machine. Get good at leading your shots and always aim for the neck. Your green ball is almost always a guarenteed kill, just fire into it before activating to maximize damage. Shield dancing is great when you're in a tight spot, especially if you have to reload. If they have rein save your gold as long as you can, if he charges into it you can chunk most of his health away. Reaper used to be a huge problem but i find with the higher projectile speed he's not too bad. 

What is going on with my SR?
Background: last season I didn't play much and placed mid-plat. 

This season I did placement with RL friends (a mistake) and placed low gold. 

Climbing has been a BEAST. I main Zen and have been pulling 66%+ win rate with him. 

SR is killing me. I've played around 25 games and have gained 200 SR. That's it. Last night I climbed from 2303 to 2425, then lost 2 games that dropped me to 2330. 

It seems like I'm gaining next to nothing (less than 20, seriously) and losing a ton (40+). What the hell is going on?

I am definitely performing. It's not uncommon for me to have silver damage and silver healing or even gold healing, even with a Mercy. I'm orbing everything. What is going on?66% win rate over 25 games means 16 wins 8 losses 1 draw, in other words, 8 more wins than losses. 200 SR / 8 games = 25 SR per game. There is nothing going on with your SR. This is perfectly normal.
You are either:

A - doing bad with other heroes, negating your winrate on zen

Or

B - not telling the full story and and lying

If you are winning 2/3 of your games on a hero that you pretty much only play, you are not going to be winning sub 20 SR and losing 40+. Post your overbuff and I bet we will see the problem. 

With that being said, 200 SR gained over 25 games isn't bad.
Link your overbuff
This. Learn to use basic math?

Converted to PC from PS4 at the end of June, today I hit one of my big goals!
https://media.giphy.com/media/tkKQdfm9bo0G4/giphy.gif

bt BunnyBrigade#11616 https://www.overbuff.com/players/pc/BunnyBrigade-11616?mode=competitive
About 2 1/2 months into my PC gaming career and today I hit diamond! I managed to hit masters on PS4 but I think I might be more proud of this. I've trolled this sub for many moons and I was hovering around 2500 when I decided it was just time to *play smarter* and that my stubbornness really was a detriment. I switched from my beloved Sombra and played mostly Pharah, some Junk and Bastion, filled as healer when necessary, tried to stop making any even nominally negative comments about teammates and actively optimized teamchat (calling targets, ultimates, beginnings and ends of fights). I'm not sure if I'm imagining things but this meta seems much less oppressive than the last and really gives you options for switches. I kind of wanted to do a little write up of the last week because I felt some things finally click that I think other players around this rank could benefit from hearing. Mostly common sense type things you'll find on this sub but *admittedly* may choose to ignore in the heat of a bad match. Anyways, thanks to the many posters of this sub, and feel free to message me with any questions. Feelsgoodman!
how do people who switch from console to pc adjust so easily, and do so well? I've keen playing on pc since s2 and am only hitting gold now in s6
I think people who are willing to spend $120 on 2 copies of the same game on top of ALL the other costs of switching are generally pretty serious about the game. but maybe it's not so much that everyone who switches is successful but you only hear from the ones that are haha

Scrub Pharah Guide Part 1 - L2Pharah
I kept seeing people say to use Pharah to get out of Bronze/low rank, or some other character to 'carry’, but no detail on how. Turns out there's a lot to learn. I climbed out of Bronze mostly with Pharah with a 68% win rate, and here are my tips and notes from my experience. I actually have so many notes that this guide will be split into at least two parts. This part will focus on learning Pharah and is aimed for newer players, some basic game knowledge is still assumed however. There are also some tips that will be useful for anyone in low rank. 

I am a new to FPS player myself, not a high-ranked streamer who tried out low ranks as a science experiment (not to imply those guys don't have useful advice- it's just a different perspective). I mostly played Soldier or supports initially and started off season 5 from the deepest, slimiest depths of bronze, SR < 500. (When you’re that low, that’s all it says - you don’t have an SR number.) Part of my drop was unfortunately due to computer issues (quickly fixed) but I still had lots to improve regardless. It was discouraging to not know how low I was but I knew I had nowhere to go but up. 

**Play Nice, Play Pharah**

So why is Pharah effective in Bronze? Everyone says it and now I've seen it - many people at low rank really do not look up or try to counter her. There is often not a hitscan (characters who have the easiest time shooting Pharah due to being hitscan, e.g. their primary fire shots instantly register as a hit, versus projectile shots which take time to travel) such as Soldier or McCree or if there is he may never even shoot at me until I start raining rockets on his face and even then he can barely hit me. I've had the occasional round without a single death because of that- but I'm just not that amazing at dodging and peeking. Take advantage when you can but don't let your guard down- sometimes there will be a Soldier who can hit you or a Zenyatta who discords you every time you stick your face out. 

As Pharah it's easy to see what's going on in the fight from up high and dive down or flank to eliminate a lone healer, which can swing games since teams will frequently only run one. There are also a lot of people playing Symmetra, Junkrat and Torbjorn- you can typically deal with them easily as Pharah (even with the recent Junkrat changes). Doomfist was introduced since I started my climb, but he is not much of an issue for Pharah either. Pharah can also be fairly independent - you can bomb the enemy a bit, take cover and grab a healthpack if needed, then repeat. 

**Pharah Basics - Flying the Friendly Skies**

I was somewhat reluctant to try Pharah at first because it seemed like it might be hard to fly and aim but it's actually not that hard. Her rockets are forgiving as they deal splash/proximity damage, so you can be effective without perfect aim. The rockets also have knockback which bops the target a little if you hit them in the feet, giving them a predictable path, and you can use concussive blast for a similar effect. Additionally, players in Bronze often run in straight lines or clump up which makes them easy to hit. Using her rockets as suppressive fire (shooting at doors/chokepoints where an enemy is about to come through) is also effective at discouraging attacks and sometimes lands kills. You can also shoot at walls for splash damage on anyone nearby. The splash damage affects her too so be careful about shooting too close to walls, railings, shields and other players. 

*Aim Drills*

First things first. I do aim drills with Soldier (my secondary DPS) and now with Pharah. With Pharah in particular, you need to get used to shooting from the air and learn to watch the enemy's movement so that your rockets will hit where they are about to be, not where they currently are, as the rockets have a travel time. It sounds harder than it is- again at the lowest levels of bronze, many players have poor movement. However, as you rank up you will see less of that, so start drilling!

Yes, drills can be tedious. No, you will not magically see results immediately. But there's a reason so many people recommend it and there's a reason drills are done in every sport, physical and virtual. Even 10 minutes each play session will go a long way. It took a couple months (and I really wasn't that diligent about it) but it has made a noticeable difference. I either use the training range or a custom game. For a custom game, dial up Pharah's health, dial down or disable the other characters’ abilities, add a few enemy AI bots (no Lucio at first) and focus on tracking and shooting while flying. When it gets easy, then add a Lucio or two. 

Here are some other good drills - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fqfCiybLvys

*Quick Play Practice*

I did not jump right into competitive mode as Pharah without some decent time in Quick Play and some time watching tutorial videos. The new Death Match mode is also very useful for practicing dueling and mechanics but you still want practice on the full maps. Spend 10 hours or so in Quick Play to get comfortable with Pharah's abilities and on the maps - even if you've played the game for a while already, it's a different perspective on each map as Pharah. 

Aim to die as little as possible and get a good average E/D (eliminations to deaths) ratio throughout your games, win or lose. 2+ is the minimum I aimed for- anything less and you're not doing your job as a damage dealer- you have to kill the enemy more than they kill you. Higher is of course better. It should be obvious that if you get something like 2 kills and 0 deaths, your ratio will be good, but you are not aggressive enough. You should generally have gold or silver damage. Medals are NOT a reliable gauge of whether you're doing well since they’re only relative to your team, but they can tell you where there’s a problem - if you can't get high damage and elims consistently then there's something you need to work on. Pay attention to your death replays and/or record and review your games so you can learn from your mistakes. 

Quick Play will have less than ideal team composition and people goofing around but... so will competitive mode. You can never blame your team for you doing poorly. NO EXCUSES. Even if I don't win, I can typically play consistently well even in QP as Pharah regardless of my team. Pharah can operate independently at times, so not having a healer or tank isn't the end of the world. That said, sometimes it will be more effective to stick with your tank to use their shield or protect your healer. However, even though your goal is to practice Pharah, switch off if you're just dying constantly- you also need to recognize when Pharah ends up being a poor option. 

If there's two or more of the following and they know to go after you, it may be time to switch- Widowmaker, Soldier, McCree, Bastion, D.Va, Zenyatta, sometimes Winston. I also prefer to avoid Torbjorn in combination with Bastion and/or Orisa if no one is helping to focus either - without a shield tank or a good D.Va I end up skulking behind cover too much and not taking advantage of Pharah's mobility. That said I also use Quick Play to practice dealing with Pharah's biggest threats like Soldier or McCree. It remains to be seen but I expect with the upcoming D.Va changes (new missile ability, ability to shoot while flying) she may become more of a threat toward Pharah but also a bit easier to kill due to the lowered Defense Matrix time. 

Also spend a little time in Quick Play hunting enemy Pharahs as Soldier or D.Va so you can learn what they can use against you. You should have a couple other characters in your pocket anyway for when you need to switch or in case someone else picks Pharah. McCree works too but requires better aim and positioning than Soldier. 

*Pharah Basics*

As you're practicing, here are some more things to keep in mind. 

* Pop out from cover in different spots both horizontally and vertically, either from the ground or by flying up to shoot and then drop down behind objects. Then come back from another angle or entryway to keep your enemies guessing. 
* Always be by cover - know which way you can go for safety if you start taking fire. Pharah is very squishy, so in general I try to duck out before I'm down to half health unless it's obvious the enemy hitscan can't aim or I'm challenging an easy to kill enemy. If you're going to put yourself in the open entirely with no escape route, make sure it's for good reason (e.g. to take out enemy healers or you have numbers advantage and you're finishing off the enemy) or be sure a healer has your back.
* Get comfortable with keeping yourself in the air as long as possible and don't drop in the middle of enemies or without cover- it's so easy to kill a Pharah on the ground. Tap/pulse to use her hover jets, don't hold the key down while fighting (except to get up on ledges) and let go when you use the jump jet to let the fuel recharge. A tell of a bad Pharah is one that drops down too often. 
* Avoid small enclosed spaces if enemies are inside, unless you know you can dive in and kill them in one hit and/or you have them on the run. Take immense care to bait out key abilities or don't even bother if it's a Junkrat, Reaper, Symmetra, Mei, McCree or Zenyatta. Almost all excel at close quarters fights, Zenyatta is mainly dangerous if he knows to charge up a shot first, just assume he will. 
* Learn where all the high spots are that you can land on - you can't land on slanted rooftops for instance, though you can slide- so that you can use those to flit from high ground to high ground. 
* Learn where the health packs are, in low ranks you can't always rely on your healer(s) to look up either. Whenever you find yourself low on health and were unable to find a healer or health pack, go into the map later in a custom game and figure out where you should have gone. 
* Pay attention to where your healers are, if you need healing and your healer is nearby, make it easy on them and drop back to cover with them or fly in front of them if safe to do so. Don't expect Mercy, Ana or even Zenyatta to be able to get you healed if you're just out of sight up on a ledge - none of them can heal without line of sight. With Lucio you just have to drop down near him for a little bit when his aura is yellow. Otherwise hitting that 'I need healing’ button is just going to frustrate your healer(s). Do hit the callout otherwise if you are behind or next to them and they might not see you but don't spam it. 
* Pay attention to the kill feed, the skull icons in the field and the health bars (you should turn them on in options) of your teammates so you can decide better when to duck out or retreat in a losing fight, save your healer or help a teammate win a duel. Periodically check the status screen when you die or when there's not much going on. 
* Learn the routes where you can sneak around behind the enemy and learn to do it when they're engaged from the front with the rest of your team. 
* Learn the uses of her concussive blast - this is a super useful ability. For maneuvering - to quickly move from spawn, to escape an enemy or to quickly dive someone. Using concussive blast to get away has saved my life so many times- aim at a nearby wall or floor and shoot yourself backward and away quickly. Or turn 180, use it and turn 180 to move yourself toward something. Practice this in the training range or in a custom game. To boop - offensively and defensively - boop away enemies to save yourself or teammates, boop enemies off cliffs, boop enemy healers away from their team, and boop enemies (a slippery Lucio for example) off the payload or point to prevent them from contesting, especially if you're close to capturing or it's overtime. Since the blast sends the enemy in a predictable direction, it's also easier to shoot them then. 
* Get in the habit of waiting for others to respawn so you don't fly into a fight alone or severely outnumbered. If you're the only thing to shoot at, even players with poor aim can eventually take you down. 
* Work on building your ult quickly - if you’re spending too much time flying around and not shooting at something, you won’t build it quickly.
* Learn to use your ult wisely- not too low in the air so you're too easy to target quickly and not so high that you risk not killing any targets at all. Don't ult when D.Va is in mech or when hitscan (Widow, Soldier, McCree, Sombra, etc) can get you easily, and try to target Mercy first so she can't resurrect. Pharah is immobile and vulnerable while ulting, ideally in comp play you can call out for a healer or D.Va to use Defense Matrix to protect you, she can point it at you to absorb damage coming your way (it remains to be seen how helpful this will be once D.Va’s DM is changed). But generally try to take easy opportunities to kill a couple squishies quickly, particularly healers, Soldier/McCree or characters that can be hard to hit like Genji (make sure he already used deflect) or Tracer (after she uses most of her blinks and/or recall). It’s not as exciting to take out only 2 with your ult but that’s still 1/3 of the enemy team! It's sometimes difficult to combo at low ranks but if you can, some good ult combos are Earthshatter + Barrage, Graviton + Barrage, Nano + Barrage, Blizzard + Barrage. Or Barrage as they run away from D.Va’s ult. 

There’s a lot of good resources on general Pharah strategy, check out Valkia's videos on YouTube for more - https://www.youtube.com/user/valkia

**Common Pharah mistakes**

These are some mistakes I see other Pharah players make or that I have made. 

* Dropping to the ground in the middle of a fight. If you're going to drop, you generally want to be behind cover or on high ground. Work on your hovering if this is a problem.
* Going after an enemy Pharah. Pharah is not a Pharah counter- unless your air shots are good or her movement is abysmal, it's a waste of time to fly around and dogfight when you can be harassing her teammates on the ground. If she comes after you, keep one eye on her and dodge, avoid walls and wait for her to drop low or to the ground and she becomes an easy kill. Call out to your team to focus her preferably. However, watch out if she is coming from behind- she likely plans to ult. Warn your team and be ready for it. 
* Not getting to cover or retreating when attacked from afar. Some Pharahs seem to get tunnel vision looking down while in the air. This is basic for any character- pay attention to your health and if you’re being shot at. I once killed a Pharah as D.Va by repeatedly flying toward her and whittling her down, she never backed off. 
* Not paying attention to turrets- Torbjorn’s or Symmetra's. These are free damage and easy ult charge for the enemy, they need to go down first and Pharah is good at handling these. Symmetra turrets are often right behind a chokepoint - you can avoid this by flying very high, or finding another path around if possible. Or you may need to find an angle to shoot through the chokepoint. If there’s a level 2 Torb turret (2 barrels, 300 health and 57 damage per second) you will likely need help to take it out or sufficient distraction. Destroy the turrets and then kill the Torb or Sym immediately if possible. If Torb starts setting up a second turret, it is very easy to destroy while he's setting it up as it won't have full HP. 
* Not prioritizing enemy hitscan. Matches always go better when I don't forget about the Soldier.
* Not prioritizing enemy healers. Don't complain about Mercy's ult being overpowered, just kill her first, particularly after the first couple minutes when she will definitely have rez. Even with her upcoming changes, she will still be a high priority. 
* Standing still in one high spot and shooting. You become an easy target. There are some occasions where it makes sense to do this but the key is to keep it very brief and watch your back. 
* Being too obvious about ulting. If you're going to do an ult from behind for example, try not to show yourself at all until you're about to do it, don't float around slowly toward the back and hope no one sees you. Or wait to do it when you can see that most of the enemy is busy fighting your teammates. 
* Forgetting to melee if an enemy is very low on health. Sometimes you just gotta drop down and punch someone in the face to get that kill. >If there's two or more of the following and they know to go after you, it may be time to switch- Widowmaker, Soldier, McCree, Bastion, D.Va, Zenyatta, sometimes Winston.  

Bastion is not an issue from my experience. Ana can be, especially the ones with good aim and in open space maps (Route 66, Nepal etc.) Even the Likes of Orisa, Zarya, Hog, Hanzo Genji are all pretty decent against Pharah. Generally if you wanna l2p her, you may as well learn how to play against 4-5 counters in one team, because its almost guaranteed they will have them and will know how to focus you. 

>Going after an enemy Pharah. Pharah is not a Pharah counter.

Its easy to land rockets on unsuspecting Pharah id go for it unless she plays it safe at long range.  Trick is to get close, while out if her LoS, not trying to waste time and duel her at medium range. 

How do you play defense anymore? It feels like the last patch slanted it way in favor of offense
I am a plat Season 5 and now Season 6, but have been on a gigantic rough patch since my S6 placements, and it's almost all coming on the defensive side. 

I used to win almost every game on defense. I was a decent offensive player, but I really climbed to plat playing Rein and Mercy, and using those two tremendously on defense. I used to never even worry about not triple capping a payload or getting 90% on point B at Volskaya and Hanamura.

Now, I can't win a single game on defense. Anytime I do, it's because I'm playing Symmetra into a cheese comp or it feels lucky. I probably give up all points in 75% of my games. I'd never even given up 6 points in a payload game, and now I've done it 3 times this season.

I just basically don't know what to do. I used to carry mediocre comps with Rein or Mercy, because you're not going to get a perfect comp, but if you play a hero that helps others, they can shine. Now it feels like I've totally lost Reinhardt, Orisa, and all healers because of so many offensive Junkrats and Roadhogs that are BLOWING straight through either my shield, or the shield that the tank I'm healing has. 

It feels like defense for me and all of my teams are just hanging on for dear life. The tanks shields and barriers are just being melted away, therefore the healers are unprotected, and therefore you need your DPS to be doing an extraordinary job of trading with the other priority targets to hold objectives.

Now, I'll admit, I've had some pretty bad luck with DPS's (way too many Widows with no Widow experience, bad McCrees, Tracers killing themselves), so some of that will eventually turn around, but it doesn't feel like I can put up a fair fight anymore. 

I feel like the obvious answer is "learn Roadhog if shield tanks aren't working, but I feel totally helpless and naked on him if I don't have a Mercy, and I can't protect her on my own anymore anyway without a 1 shot. 

I feel totally helpless and looking for answers, because I used to love defensive Overwatch, and now it feels like you have to execute perfectly just to hold a single point. I play Junkrat.

(80% winrate after 20 games)
I was having trouble with the same issues S5, and I did 2 things that helped. First and the most important one, is I really focused on my positioning. Second, I added Zarya to my hero pool. She really shines when the enemy team is pumping out damage like that.
If anything, it is now actually easier to defend than before.

Torbrissa is really good on some maps/points, and Junkrat is also pretty good now in general so you can run cheesy strats like never before. 

I can imagine a lot of draws happening on Hybrid or 2CP maps especially in lower ranks.
Learn to Zen and help your DPS melt those Hogs down even through their healing. Bait out and herd Junks. Plus you have the best "oh shit button" in the game
Torb is great atm I think, dont be afraid to spam those annoying level 1 turrets constantly, armor for everyone helps heaps also. 
I've been finding offense far more difficult than defense at my elo. So many cheezy comps with Torbrissa+Sym+Junkrat that just aren't fun to play against. My defensive holds have been strong even without needing to resort to those strategies though, and I've been playing the same heroes as you (Rein/Orisa). I've been trying my hardest to stay positive during the games and encourage my team to be brave in defending. Turtling on defense is, a lot of the time, a road to a quick loss.
Shields are still very important and a staple in almost every comp. People are very used to them now. Instead of the huge rein v rein standoff we used to have for 3 minutes each game. That is very short now. The genji knows he has to go flank, the pharah knows to shoot behind the shield, junk and roadie know to spam the shit out of it. 

Tl;dr You can't just stand there as orisa and rein anymore. You have to actively corner peak and play like anyone else would, jump out and use the shield when you need to. 
I used to play a lot of cree. I played him for 50 hours on qp to get good at positioning and my aim was good enough for Plat level since I played cs go and call of duty. I climbed to low Plat all the from 1050 Sr in season 4. Season 5, I ended at low gold Cuz I didn't play much.

Now in season 6 I played cree and even though I think I performed well (tracer, genji and pharah players had a hard time against me.) I wasn't able to climb since even though mcree is technically a duelist he needs support from tanks and heals which obviously I don't get. I play a lot of ana too but I learnt not to trust dps instalocks. Hence I switched to maining hog for now.

Believe me hog is one of those few heroes that has everything you need. Most importantly his ult charge rate and his hooks. I still haven't started climbing fast but slowly getting there.

I am telling you this because I personally feel of you want to be a self reliant tank who can deal damage and punish people for mis positioning . The new buff also makes him a sustain God. So you can give him a try instead of playing rein. Dva I wouldn't really advice as her play style will change by a lot once her rework hits live.

Good luck! 
If you are having trouble with shield dying then learn to use yourself as a shield or just block don't all the time. 

If your team is playing corners then all you want to be shielding is road hooks or other burst. Then when they push in you can use your shield then. 

Be effectively cycling your shield you can have it up way longer. Remember that you and other tanks can take a lot of damage so don't be afraid of soaking a bit yourself then using shield while your healers get you back up. 

Let me know if this helped or if you need anymore help. 
Be prepared for the tire radius to get smaller
What SR? Any tips?
Junkrat is the Tatchanka  of Overwatch and he works
I want to second that Zarya suggestion! Playing her has made a big difference in my defense as well. 
[deleted]
3300

Basically just kill everyone who doesn't respect your space - 1 shot and mine kills any squishy.

Leading the shots is important, you need to learn how to duel and fight at close range. Junkrats who only spam long range chokes are useless. Of course, you should do it when the enemy goes there, but once the fight develops go all Al Kaida on them :)

Don't forget to always disengage with a mine to the face if Genji or Winston jumps you - you can also  throw the mine to the side of the deflect and kill the ninja through it ;)
I should elaborate on my positioning tip. When balancing happens, especially balancing this big, the positions that you need to take change, so while you don't suddenly suck, you may need to adapt to the changes.
You might have climbed a lot end of last season due to people throwing/tilting/no longer trying. Happens every season. 
Any way to deal with tracer? Or just get a lucky shot?
Really nice reply when I felt like you intial response was shot down! 

OP Looking for a more affirmative reply? It seems like you want the community to agree and say defence is harder now.... I don't think it is. I just think people are still learning the changes like mentioned above.

I do agree however that a cheese defence is still very very easy to hold with! 
Yo this is super important so thanks for this perspective. It should really help me out in future games. 
Totally fair 
Throw down a trap and stand on or near it, spam 'nades and dance
Tracer is actually my most favorite matchup. You can hit her with a nade in close quarters easily and then it's just a matter of a mine.

Even if you don't hit the nade, mine is usually enough to trigger a recall.

And most of the time they get stuck into traps when you place them along their used routes :)
I agree, he replied like a wise old master would to his excitable and overconfident pupil. 

Calmly, with the intent to help the other understand. 

Reminds me of Obi-wan and Anakin. 
"You underestimate my power!"
His next bit of advice will be to "Always take the high ground." 


2835SR, Pharah main. Need help.
I am a pharah main, who often flexes to lucio and mercy. I've noticed that some days, my Pharah is really good and I can easily get 70% Kill Participation in games. Other times, I just can't even get a single kill. Is there something I should be doing to make me consistant? Maybe recording enemy comps and maps where I win / lose to know my bad and good points?

Another thing I noticed is that when there is a Pharah Mercy mirror I almost always am able to kill them because my airshots are quite good. Even though I am confident with my ability to airshot, should I just focus killing enemies on ground?

I have an irl friend who is currently #4 Pharah on overbuff. ( Gaia#something ) should I ask him to record his gameplay and learn from him?If you are confident in hitting your shots, you probably have to work on target priority and positioning. If there's a hitscan (or two) looking to shut you down, you gotta prioritize killing them first or play more safe until they're occupied with something else. Peek, fire a couple of shots, peek from another spot, fire a shot, etc. 

You should probably also record a VOD and get either your friend or people here to review it. 
70% kill participation is pretty awesome, im extremely happy if i get around 40% or so. Well obvious thing that can affect your efficiency is how many Hitscan they have and how good they are in general. I think its impossible to be consistent as Pharah in this sense, you can still draw attention, spam from afar and contribute greatly, but some comps will just force you to play safe one way or another, more like supportive DPS not main one. But ask your #4 Pharah friend what he thinks about it, would be interesting to hear i bet. 
I consistently have to either kick people off of Hit scans or just pick a third dps because a Pharah in gold is a nightmare. Nobody will shoot her, shield tanks won't block for you, etc. Once I got to play, I just say focusing Pharah and immediately all of the people she has been pissing off will switch to her. I imagine this gets even more true as you get to high player and diamond. 

I am an above average Soldier, but I can destroy a similar Pharah 9/10 times if I have ANY help whatsoever from my team. 

My question is...What do you recommend for killing you when I don't have help? I am trying to learn Junkrat (so i can kill them easier) and I can't do shit about a Pharah. 
I just got to diamond from low plat playing prodominantly pharah. I had to slowly wayne my way off of her every game. 

Typically now I try to instapick her on attack. I stopped playing her on defense because even if they don't have hitscan, they will switch and you can't switch until you lost the first point. 

Basically, soldiers mccrees and widows are not going to have a problem shooting you now since you're in high plat. 

When I am still able to pick pharah on attack, i usually tell my friend "hey watch me make all their dps switch to hitscan" and usually without fail I can get them to pull out soldier and mccree. At this point if you can still stay alive, it's good to stay on pharah because you're making them use so many extra resources just for you. Sometimes even a soldier alone is good tho and they'll harass you nonstop

Pharah isn't a hero who can be played well in any team comp against anyone. She's more situational especially the higher up you go. It's annoying but meh...

Edit: I don't think anyone but blizz KNOWS this, but I'm assuming there is at least a slight mmr modifier for wins and losses. Kinda like in comp if you lose 5 games in a row it'll pit you against a lower sr team. If you get last place and terrible stats for several games it's gotta push you down a bit. I also speculate that gms and top 500s tend to spam that mode a bit more because with their percentile in the population they're almost always going to be the winner. 
what did you mean by i just cant get a single kill

-not being able to kill without dying
-pressured to the point that cant deal dmg reliably
-dmg is mostly there but no follow up/ they get away
-other

cuz the difference between these is quite important imo

>Basically, soldiers mccrees and widows are not going to have a problem shooting you now since you're in high plat

If you're a good enough Pharah you should be able to dance around hitscans. You shouldn't switch just because they have a hitscan, if their hitscan is shit you can go to town. 
Totally! I'm saying it's more likely that you'll run into a proficient hitscan. Even if that soldier can't kill you, a good one greatly limits what you can get away with. 

Even the best pharahs are going to have a hard time against soldier mccree and widow together, or any two of them. Provided the hitscan are a comparable sr to the pharah. 
The only serious threat to a pharah for most of early game is a widowmaker, because pharah has the ability to play so far back that she is out of McCree and Solders effective damage range. In order to run widow the enemy team usually has to compromise some level of efficiency if they run dive as she doesn't provide as consistent dps or survivability as Soldier(although this has been increased with the grapple buff). One thing pharah is is an enabler for the land based DPS such as tracer to remove targets like zen or soldier who will be focused on the distracting birdy flinging rockets from miles away. This is just my take on her usage in dive comps because she can really wreak havoc when there is no prioritization on her (soldier shooting winston, widow killed by dva or winston etc etc.). Because deathball lacks this capability, I dont know how good pharah is there but I assume the principles are the same unless you want to be a land pharah.

[PS4] Overwatch Questions
I've been playing Overwatch for a few months and main on Junkrate, Solider: 76 and Symmetra. I find it difficult on PS4 to communicate as few players actually use their mics. 

I seem to be stuck on Bronze which I'm happy to accept but many of our losses could so well be wins or at least more competitive through basic communication and team-work. 
So, I'm hoping someone could help me with a few questions I have: 

Does playing on QP give you the opportunity to progress beyond Bronze or do I have to play Comp?

How do I actually know I'm Bronze, is that through the colour of the portrait? If so, how do I know how close I am to reaching the next level?

Thanks in advance.Hey bro, your bronze portrait is an indicator of your account level. You need to play the competitive gamemode to make progress and rise through the ranks. Bronze in comp is totally different than your portrait. 
Oh, I get it now. Thank you. 

Requesting VOD Review - Zarya - Oasis - 1600 SR
Hey guys! I'm trying to learn Zarya and would appreciate a [VOD review](https://youtu.be/T03HB7WZWxo). Looking back on it, these are the issues I see:

* I get too aggressive and jump into Roadhog and Reaper's faces trying to body block. Then I die.

* I'm not reactive enough with my shield.

* As a side effect, I never have the charge to secure kills.

* (and I'm not very good at tracking anyway)

* I don't call out enough.

* As a side effect, I usually waste my ult.

* I have trouble using the proper firing mode in the appropriate situations.Not a direct contribution to your request, but have you looked at canas1an's YouTube videos? His basics video has good tips on positioning and when to initiate bubbles.
You preemptively use bubbles too often in my opinion.  

Like when the McRee was going in against the damaged reaper in round 1, it might of been worth it to wait until the next big team fight.

I find that it's best to bubble while you/someone else is already taking damage. Especially do this for your personal bubble because you have a shield that can regenerate. 

Then your ult at the end of round one was okay at stalling them I guess but your team had no idea you were going to use it.  Plus, firing your ult into a dva in mech is asking for it to either A) getting eaten before it can even deploy or B)have the DVA defense matrix away all the damage. 

In general, I think just a little more patience and willingness to back away from fights you will lose will raise your game significantly. 
You use bubbles pre-emptively, and then overextend which gets you killed. Zarya bubbles only last for 2 seconds, so you need to be very careful with the timing. You don't need to use them right away to block poke damage, use them to block heavy amounts of damage when you push with your team. You have 400 hp, so you can afford to take a couple of hits before bubbling. Just make sure that you stay with your healers and don't overextend.

In the middle of fights you sometimes turn around to bubble random teammates that don't need it at all (13:44 for example). You should use bubbles on teammates to protect them from incoming damage, not just for the sake of using them.

You tend to run into melee range when attacking someone, which makes it harder for you to track them, and puts you at more risk (8:23, 8:56). 

When you get trapped by junkrat you start randomly punching the ground... why? You can still shoot while trapped.


I'm a pretty good Zarya, gold level. I can probably play with Plat players too. Anyways, here is my advice:

1. I don't see you talking with your team about your ult and stuff. When you're about to use it, check if a team mate, such as hanzo or pharah or something have their ult. You can combo and get a team kill easily.

2. You have 200 HP as Zarya, and 200 Shields. You aren't supposed to be soaking up damage, unless you have your bubble on. Stay away from reaper if possible.

3. Damage tip: When you use right click, use left click for a bit ( like half a second) then right click. You can dish out 4 right clicks and some left click damage!
you suicide 1v6 a lot...
I've not, thanks for the recommendation!
Thanks for the review!

I don't really have any response other than yeah, definitely stuff to discipline into myself.
Thank you for the review!

At 13:44 I thought our Mercy was going to be murdered by the Junkrat who was flanking her right. Obviously that was a wasted bubble.

The first thing my friend told me when I started playing was to always melee a junkrat trap instead of shooting it. I don't know why. It's become an instinctive bad habit I need to break.
Thanks for the tips! Communication's definitely something I need to work on. I'm not a very talky person.
:,-{
I'm pretty sure traps become indestructible once triggered.
Huh, TIL.

VOD showing Genji on attack vs Thorb and Symmetra (hanamura)
I had a fair bit of people ask me to show a video where i attacked Hanamura against Genji counters so i thought maybe some people here might find interest in watching it as well.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fG1n-Jky8jQ&Now show us how to do this in solo queue when you have 3 other dps heroes on your team running in one by one with only a zenyatta for heals. 
Moral of the story:  have a Rein on your team, and you can kill turrets w/Genji!

While the VoD shows a good Genji, I *really* hope no one is dumb enough to think that Genji is "the answer" in these sort of situations.  

At what percentage zarya ult should I save my pulse bomb for ult combo?
I have heard 70% zarya ult is a good time to start saving your pulse bomb for the combo.  Thanks in advance.70% is safe I think, Zarya can get that in one teamfight. Also don't forget to take other ults into consideration. If you have zarya + rein + nano then you don't need pulse bomb for that. 

Is new roadhog op or am i suddenly good at him?
I've been playing alot of roadhog in DM and then comp/QP and kicking some serious ass with him. I just get a hit off on someone, and then hook combo them. Is he op or am I suddenly good at a hero I've never played. I have this with alot heroes for a few days and then I start sucking at them. They just click for a few days, and then I suddenly can't use them. It's weird as fuckThis happens with a lot of players I imagine. When you are consistently doing well, you relax and continue to do well. Once you start doing badly you feel worse because you have been doing good. These good habits go to shit because you do daft things because you want to be good again. This is made even worse when playing a controversial heroes because you can given no leeway when you do badly. If you do badly on a tank other players don't notice which takes some pressure off. If you do badly with hanzo for one minute you will be asked to switch repeatedly. You start to do even more daft things to prove to these players you are good. Its a vicious cycle essentially. Best thing to do when you are preforming poorly with a hero you see yourself as good at, is to stop playing it before you get caught in this cycle. 

Roadhog however has had some big buffs, and he is absolutely easier to preform with than before the patch. 

I placed too high - people expect me to carry.
I've found myself in a weird situation this season. After five straight seasons hovering around SR 2100, I suddenly placed in platinum. Seven wins in placements, but didn't carry those games in any way.

Anyways:
My duoqueue-buddy placed around 900 lower, so now we're clumped together in gold matches. Which is fine for both of us, except the fact that everyone seems to expect me to carry the game. Which I most certainly cannot do. And then they tilt.

 Advice? Help? Words of encouragement? I would either just play my best hero every game, or pick support. No one can expect you to carry with Mercy or Lucio. 
Expecting someone to carry them is on *them*, not you. If they tilt that you aren't good enough to carry them, what they are really saying is: "I'm so bad, even a platinum on my team can't make me win."

While, of course, they won't see it that way, that is the reality they are self-imposing on your match. They see your rank and assume you will be *so* amazing that your very presence will secure the win. What they are ignoring--and what is a universal constant among every level of play--is that in a game whose matches are dictated so decisively by team play, one player a few hundred SR (or even 1000) higher cannot possibly make up for bad teamwork and coordination. 

Anomalies will happen, of course, where the higher player's likely greater motor skills will ensure a team wipe at an appropriate time, but for the most part, you (the individual on any team) are at the mercy of your team's ability to support each other.

I have an alt account that I made for the sole purpose of being able to play with my wife as my main account is a good but higher than hers. At first, I was dumbfounded to see that I couldn't even carry the team during our losses. Eventually, though, I came to realize basically what I said above. If your tanks don't know how to support you--or your healers or flankers--you won't be able to heave and ho your way through the enemy team's players. I main pharah, and even hitscans 1000 and 1500 SR below me can be trouble for me if nobody will help me deal with them. If I kill them, but the team is off somewhere goggling at posters in the spawn room, then what can I do?

Another issue I ran into playing at lower SRs was how *different* the game is at different levels of play. You sometimes almost have to, and forgive the term, dumb down your gamesense (in a way) at lower levels of play to compensate for a decreased focus on teamwork (in general) and an increased focus on the individual (ye ole yolo genji ult 1v6).

Anyway, I digress, all that to say this: Don't worry about what the other dudes say. If they think you're presence is going to give them an easy win--that's on them. You do you, and don't let anyone else complain about that. :D
Plat is just slightly better than Gold. Not carry worthy, if you were mid diamond then yes I would expect you to carry a gold game.. but not just one tier difference, that's like saying DUDE YOUR SILVER YOU SHOULD BE ABLE TO CARRY THIS BRONZE GAME!!! lol, yah right, not going to happen. or GM carry Masters game.. their just isn't a big enough gap for you to be THAT much better for the WHOLE game.. now, will you have better aim, positioning, target priority and possibly gamesense, yes, but not enough to make a huge difference. lower ranks aren't going to understand that, sorry man. 
It's going to be really hard at Gold. There really is no carrying. At least 5 should be playing well. Let's say you have medals and the most elims. That means nothing when your teammates keep dying and having the respawn - which means the Payload isn't moving, and the control point will never be captured.

Realistic Advice - get some new Plat friends on the side. If you have friends that expect you to carry them, they have the wrong mindset. There's carrying in other games, but not in Overwatch. We all know what a 5v6 feels like - so if even one of your teammates slacks off and doesn't take Competition seriously, you will not be winning many games at all.
First of all, don't belittle yourself by saying or thinking that you placed too high. You placed where you belong and what you've earned. If you didn't then you'll correct that as you continue to play and you'll fall to where you belong.

Second of all, you can't be plat and play with someone who's 900. But assuming they've ranked up some and/or you've deranked some, then at minimum you're 1000 SR away from one another and your team average is somewhere in the middle. Now, if that person is the lowest on the team by [nearly] 1000 SR as compared to everyone else then they're only playing up into ranks above their skill cap. That means you're playing closer to your rank and would be unreasonable to expect you to carry. 

If everyone else is lower than you by [nearly] 1000 SR then you're playing well below your rank and may possibly be able to carry or at the very least contribute more than 1/6 of the team.

If you're playing matches that are somewhere in between all that then you can't really be expected to carry, per se, but you may be able to contribute a bit more than your 1/6 share of the workload.
If you're in Gold then you can try to use this to advantage.  Take charge.  The wins in Gold are often determined by one team acting more like an actual team than the other.

Even if you're not the best leader... someone rallying the troops and getting people on the same page is very often going to be enough.

Also, they're more likely to have less issue with you, personally, if they think they have tasks that they're failing at and then they put the blame on themselves.  And if things aren't working... it'll be your job to be positive and reevaluate things, but keep them on task.

Of course, if you're a Soldier and they have a Pharah and you don't instantly melt them then they're still going to want to maybe throw shade.  Even then, laughing it off with the idea that they have a good Pharah (even if it's not true - I mean... like they're looking up (no one does, right?) that keeps slipping away before you can get her and such still can go a long way.

Basically... the more you run from a role everyone wants to put on you, the more likely they are to get angry at you for this supposed deserved role you should have.

I think you just sorta have to accept that you're "the guy."
Tell your team you're actually a trash can that got pulled into platinum by some sudden, strange magnetic field and you're on your journey back down.

I would just play as you normally do and try to explain you got lucky with placements. If they don't listen, well they were probably looking for something to blame / tilt about and the salt was going to come up regardless.
Just don't listen to them. If they're literally getting angry at you for not "carrying" then their opinion literally doesn't matter. 

Like... How does that even make sense? They're blaming losses on you because you couldn't play well enough to cover up **their** mistakes? 

What even?

"I played horribly but the Platinum didn't carry so it's his fault"

That's some next-level flawed thinking.
This is absurd. Unless they are borderline diamond (and even then) a plat isn't going to solo carry games every single game, tell those team mates to put in work rather than being lazy and relying on you for an easy win. 
nobody expects anyone to carry in plat lol
As much as it sucks, that's kind of how it is when you are queueing with someone that far below you.  I did it with my buddy for a while until he ranked up.  You have to remember that your friend is 500 SR below the SR he's actually playing at, so your team is going to expect you to make up for his lack of ability to play at the tier you're playing at.

As far as suggestions, assuming that you're playing somewhere in the high silver to low gold range, always play DPS.  You won't be able to carry as hard with a healer or tank, although it is possible.  Except for Zarya.  People can't seem to help shooting the bubbles at low SR and you can spend the whole game at super high charge.  Reaper is also super effective, because you can often get 2-3 kills before they even turn around to look at you, and they aren't good at dealing with him.  I.e. go in, get a kill, run into a room and often you can get another kill while wraith recharges because someone will follow you into an enclosed space.

Tracer and Genji are also super effective because they're hard to kill in general, and especially for players that, and I mean no disrespect, can't aim all that well.  You do want something difficult to kill, or that has self-healing, because you'll probably only have one healer and they won't be amazing at healing.
Mute the tilted
I'm kinda in the same situation except i normally play with a whole squad of friends. After winning 7 of the placement matches as well I got placed 2994 which was 40 over my previous career high. 
My best advice is that try and play at your own rank and if you can hold up then the difference isn't much to be surprised about since everyone is prob going to place higher this season with the new system. And for people tilting over this, either mute them or tell them to never expect to get carried on your team   Unless you have some well known 1 trick or pro player on your team. Even then its still not the best thing to do because Sr means a lot less and you should judge a player by his performance that game not a number you can see at the start 
Play solo queue til your rank equalizes. Just because you can't carry doesn't mean you were placed too high. Being in higher ranks is not about carrying, it's about not being the weak link, it's about having the ability to function in a better team and still contribute. Overwatch isn't a game where the best player always wins (unless you're a GM in bronze - plat). It's a game where worst or most toxic player loses. Don't be the worst or most toxic player, if you have them on your team, minimize their impact on your teammates and maintain a positive outlook. Anyone expecting a carry from you is an idiot and that's not your problem, do your best, and enable your teammates to do the same.

I'm a 3400 Tracer, Gengi, Ana last season for reference.  So I'm not crazy high up there so take my advice with a grain of salt, but I don't think I'm complete trash either. Good luck out there.
I'd say the system placed you accurately, since this time placements tried to put you at the rank you deserve.

If they expect you to carry it's their fault, although I've never seen anyone talk like this personally. Just give it your best.

It shouldn't even be too hard to win since you're going to be playing lower ranked players when duo-ing, you could possibly get diamond.
Ignore them.  If gold players expect a plat to carry them, they're retarded.
How? I ended last season with a high around 3050 and ended at ~2750. I went 9-1 and placed right around 2750.
Play Junkrat
I think they've meddled with the algo. I was stable in the 2000-2200 range but right out of placements I got put into 2300.

My second account has a few more placements to go. Be interesting to see the divide, because I played it with some bronze kid and couldn't carry. Lost like 3 or 4 games to stupid scrub tactics like fucking torb turrets combined with symmetra. (Yeh I tried to carry as Pharah, but there was 0 fucking heals, and every time I wiped their team the Mercy would res. If I hunted the mercy, got her, and then half the team, my teammates would still get bogged down fighting tanks..)
Disable both text chat and voice chat and carry on and enjoy your game. Nobody can talk shit to you or force you into playing characters you don't like just because they expect you to carry, and you're better off listening to in-game sounds and not being tilted.

Also, if you do wanna carry, learning stuff could help. Check out ioStux or Skyline YouTube stuff for example, these are great :)
I wish I had this problem lol
I've played against a Top 500 in QP, probably all the rest were plat. We won because our teamplay... I think that at time this top 500 was duo, everyone else was solo. So communication is really the key :\

So since I think that elo is good, but nothing is better than a good team that stick together and try to avoid tilting.

What I do recommend is to encourage your teammates, try to act a nice guy, boost their moral, ask them to stick together, to push calls (like "mercy low", "reaper down", "regroup", "fall back and regroup" ~~or the salty one: "stop feeding their ults"~~ nvm, don't use this one)
As someone that can get 75% kill participation pretty regularly if i put on the ole try hard panties; carries dont win games. Having a team of people willing to do their jobs and coordinate wins games. 

Just be you and be positive. 
The fact is 10 games just isn't enough to accurately get you at the rank you need to be. Just keep playing Comp and Duoing with your friend if you are losing games you will soon reach where you are supposed to be and there is no more pressure. Just try and enjoy ranked and focus on improving you may find that you actually do belong at the level your at. Either way continuing to play Comp will get you to the rank you deserve
Advice? Solo fucking Q 
You can do one of two things:

1. try and not care about others expectations

2. Stop duoing with your buddy and just solo with others in your rank 
Do they say something? How do you know that they want you to carry?
strangers expect you to do many things, you don't need to meet those expectations. why? they are strangers.

I'm 2700 and my friends are at 1800, I usually just play healers only at that level. 
U shouldnt think that just because your rank is higher than the average of the game they will expect you to carry. When you think you need to carry them, it makes you a little too passive and you make mistakes that haunt you the rest of the game. Or you know just play pharah against gold and let your friend play mercy. Gold dont know what to do against pharah
Say it's your brother's account and ask how to enable the big shield on the "knight character"
In overwatch its very hard to carry if your team is bad, almost impossible. Im currently smurfing in plat as a low GM peak dps main. I feel like plat is WAY to random some games are so easy its not funny next game your 4 gold as winston while having 4 dps. 

It doesn´t matter if your true SR is 1000-1500 above some games are just unwinnable even if your having the game of your life, the trick is to know that if you are good enough you will rank up overtime.

So you can have an big impact on your games but being plat in a gold game wont make you carry. 
CTRL+SHIFT+C

P

Click the mic

Enjoy.
Let's go ahead and call a humblebrag a humblebrag. This is the definition :P
i got in the opposite situation

found troll in 8 games out of 10 of placements, placed 400 points lower than before. wich is kinda fine as i steamrolled the opposing team with attack Torb (7 win 2 draw 1 loss) and eventually played a few matches with some guys randomly laughting our asses off as the turret was killing almost anyone
1. Play junkrat
2. Always hold trigger / m1
3. ????
4. Profit
There are plenty of times when Mercy can and does carry teams. Lucio can too although I would agree that his impact is generally much less than a Mercy unless the skill of the player is ungodly for the rank they're in. But Mercy carries aren't exactly uncommon among mid ranks. If your team neglects to kill her consistently and keeps feeding her ult charge by trying to kill the people she's healing instead of her (which is also, sadly, not uncommon in mid ranks) then she'll frequently have res. So when you do get that team wipe, finally, she just undoes it with a button press.
Actually you can carry with each characters, even as mercy with those great rezzes and healing priorities or Lucio with those boops/good speedboosts/sound barriers.

The thing is how much of a potential you have to carry, in the DPS role the potential is the best, as you're the character who can do the most elim/damage wise. With tank you can carry pretty nicely as well and healer is the with the least potential, but it still 100% possible.
Lol, this is actually not bad advice. But it would suck having to pick something you don't usually play just to circumvent your team's expectations.
A good Lucio can team carry
But he is pulling up the average SR for the team by queueing with someone so much lower (assuming the rest of the team is silver). That could lead to harder matchups for the team. Or, to look at it from the other perspective, he's bringing a lower friend into a match where they won't be as effective (if the rest of the team is gold/plat). If you can't carry a friend almost 1k SR under you, I feel it is at least somewhat unfair to their teammates.

That said, I may be biased because I've played with several plat/silver duos in my placements and we often lose. 
I am in silver and this frustrates me so much. I constantly track enemy and team ults but ult useage prediction is impossible bc silver players dont know how to use ults. I played a game witha dva who never used defense matrix on the reaper who got several 4 mans (some that i rezzed others i couldnt and asked the dva to worry about it, and as i scream hes gonna ult he does and we all die and she never turned. The problem is my aim is like that of a 2 yo
No, one diamond cannot carry 4 golds. Unless those golds does everything he says, he really can't because this is a team game. If this was a bunch of diamonds and plats and one gold, more possible to carry.
Was looking for this answer. I would just stop playing with the friend until he too hits plat.
OP said their buddy is 900 SR *below* them, not 900 SR total. So OP is Plat, their buddy is high silver/low gold. Their games fall in mid gold, and OP doesn't feel like they play at a significantly higher level than that (to carry) since they've historically been low gold. I can understand that.

Honestly I don't think OP can do much besides play heroes they're strong at, and ignore the comments. I went on a bad losing streak a few seasons ago and got called a "thrower" immediately, and still got flack after I picked a widely selected hero and clearly played to win.
I hate comments like these. Just because you play in higher ranks doesn't mean the dynamic that exists there doesn't exist in lower ranks. A mid/high plat in mid gold is the same as a mid/high GM in a mid master game. The majority of the game plays in gold and plat. Your condescension isn't necessary.

Plus, your comment doesn't even make sense. I'm in solid mid plat, if a mid diamond player joins the team, people definitely expect him to carry.
if everyone is 2400 and there's a 2800/1900 Duo in the team, the rest of the team will definitely expect the higher ranked to play the higher impact player. 2800 Phara with 1900 Mercy would be 10x better than 2800 mercy with 1900 phara. 
Yeah, that's why I posted this in the first place. I suddenly got a string of games where people explicitly asked me to carry. It was weird, never heard people asking that of plats in gold before. Small sample size, and anectodal as hell, ofcourse. 
Directed towards me in the OP? I reaaaally tried to avoid making that impression. And got a lot of great answers. Cheers again, everyone:)
This is true, I pretty much main Lucio and Mercy and can kick ass, but there's definitely less pressure to carry with a healer, and I think that was what the OP was looking for
I found that in order to carry as Lucio you need to communicate a ton, keep track of enemy ults, targets to focus, announce your speed boosts, etc.  You need to be a team captain/shot caller in a way.
Mercy main - I love locking onto a tank to heal only to have the other team focus on that tank. Thanks, I'll take another Ult. 
Mercy's kit carries in that it resets fights by virtue of hide and seek. The hero is brainless
Can but isn't necessarily expected. Technically anyone can carry, but it won't be as bad on OP if he was to choose support
No
I run into this a lot too. It's definitely a factor, but not a definitive one. Of 6 players, the average SR increase shouldn't be TOO significant. 
Yes, that *is* frustrating. Honestly, this sort of thing still happens in some of the upper levels of play, but can be circumvented somewhat by queueing with a couple friends you know that you can rely on. 
A diamond in a match with 11 golds can absolutely crush everyone and lead his team to victory. Gold players are have an idea of how to play, but will likely make many, many mistakes on top of not having quite as good accuracy or reflexes. The diamond player will make mistakes too (you really can expect mistakes until GM, and no one is perfect), but lower ranked players are far less likely to punish them. He won't win every single match, but he will certainly win most of them.

edit: that said, it's not OP's problem if others think he should carry. Just relax and play your best, and don't worry about how skilled your teammates are; they're still warm bodies and they'll still fight for the win alongside you.
Yah you tell that to a bunch of holds getting destroyed by a diamond soldier in arcade mode..
Ah, you're right. I missed the "lower" part of the statement. I read it as 900 [SR] rather than 900 *lower* than OP. My mistake.

Nevertheless, the point still stands. If OP is playing in matches that average as low as or nearly as low as their friend then OP is significantly more skilled than the other players on the team/match. There's a high chance that OP can carry those matches or at the very least contribute a significant portion of their team's workload. Alternatively, if the team average is closer to their own SR then there shouldn't be any expectation to carry a match/team. If the team average is somewhere in the middle (approximately 3-400 SR below OP and above their friend) then OP can probably add a bit more effort to the team but there shouldn't be any expectation to carry.

I get that OP *feels* like they don't play at that level and if they're right then they will fall. However, if they don't then they're just short changing themselves and deprecating their own worth. That's why I suggest not belittling themselves. Take pride in what you've earned and run with it. Don't get over confident, though, that can hurt. But so can not having enough confidence in yourself.
One thing that I haven't heard anyone talk about is that he is probably bringing up the average SR of the games by about 200, giving his friend harder games than they are used to. When I play with my high plat friends, the games are marginally harder. I can still contribute but I have to really put my game face on.
>  A mid/high plat in mid gold is the same as a mid/high GM in a mid master game.

the difference between mid plat and mid gold is not equivalent to the difference between gm and master, it's more like the difference between 3700 and 3600
Actually around mid-high masters you start seeing GMs and Top 500's every few matches; there's simply so few of them that they filter down to Masters matches sometimes. Plus it's also a rank where most of their alternate accounts spend a lot of time. There's always some standouts that seriously kick ass, but for the most part everyone contributes meaningfully whether or not a few players are hundreds of SR higher.
i dont expect anyone of my team to carry. thats a bad mindset. ive seen shitty top500 players that cant hold their ground.
Tbh I expect the 2800 player to be worse. That's just my usual experience with higher ranked players who make it into my games.
Could be. But I don't see a single indication of OP mentioning any expectation to carry as a healer/support. Nor any specificity of Lucio or Mercy. OP could be a tank main or dps main.

Nevertheless, it doesn't matter what character they play. You can carry with just about anyone/everyone if you're skill is high enough compared to the other players in the match. Some characters just have an easier or higher potential to carry. Namely, dps characters.
i think playing mercy has perhaps a lot more pressure than just a general dps (not all, some are also very high pressure) due to the nature of her ult. if badly used, she can throw and essentially lose the entire game due to the extreme significance her ult has in impacting play :/ also everyones spectating jer while dead so its really easy to spot her mistakes and when she missed /the/ rez that wld win the game. just some thoughts

edit: granted this may not be very relevant to OP but ehh
Except people complaining about not getiing healed on the middle of the battleground surrounded by 5 people. Or not reviving when your ult isn't even ready. Salt flows everywhere sadly.
Those are definitely good qualities out of a Lucio player. Often times I see Lucio's that either never speed boost when needed (or at all) or never get off of speed boost and heal when needed. I find it rare to get a good mix of both with randos. But that's just my experience.
What's extremely frustrating is this is so common even in plat/diamond. This is like "How to kill Mercy 101," and people still can't figure it out. It's frustrating as hell that I have to keep calling out repeatedly to "focus the Mercy."

Then people go on to whine and complain that we can't kill anyone and/or we're losing. Like, "if you'd just focus the Mercy instead of the Rein then maybe we could make some progress."
Mercy being a low skill floor character doesn't mean she can't carry. Soldier is a low skill floor character and he can very much carry a match.

As far as skill and difficulty with Mercy goes, playing hide and seek is only relevant when she's holding res. In the time it takes to charge she is generally bouncing around a battle field except in those moments where she can heal someone from behind cover, which is smart. But it's those times when she's dancing around the battle that no one is taking the opportunity to kill her that allow her to carry a match. It's not even a res necessarily. It is certainly a big factor, but a Mercy being left unattended can carry matches without ever having to pop res. That is pretty true for any healer who's left alone. 
I'm a Lucio main that carrying out of bronze, if you never get off point then the enemy will lose
Yeah, as I wrote that I realized that usually they end up placed with gold folks. In that case, it ends up being a question of whether or not the silver player can play at a highish gold level. 
No, they can't. They might be able to with some luck, but not absolutely. I think it can seem like that for golds because there's such a skill gap between golds and Diamond (even between low-mid Plats and diamonds), but because of the way Overwatch is structured, it's really hard for 1 Diamond to carry a bunch of golds. It helps he's duoing with a plat, but again, because this is a team game, it's really hard.

That's why when you see videos like these they use GM or Masters - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PQe2pUcJgRk

Gold players have basics, yes, but, I was literally in a game with my barely plat and gold friends and they didn't know the payload can heal them. They also thought it was OP.
sure, a soldier can destroy a bunch of golds in arcade (which is not even close to an example of a comp game). But comp is an objective based game. Whether it's holding the point or moving the payload. Diamonds are better then gold, but when it's a team of golds with 1 diamond, it's really hard to carry because being skilled isn't aim. It's also game sense and ult management. Unless those golds follow the diamond's instruction to a tee, it'd be really hard to carry.
Lot of good advice here, cheers guys. 
I chose to answer to this one mainly because of this:

"Nevertheless, the point still stands. If OP is playing in matches that average as low as or nearly as low as their friend then OP is significantly more skilled than the other players on the team/match. There's a high chance that OP can carry those matches or at the very least contribute a significant portion of their team's workload. Alternatively, if the team average is closer to their own SR then there shouldn't be any expectation to carry a match/team. If the team average is somewhere in the middle (approximately 3-400 SR below OP and above their friend) then OP can probably add a bit more effort to the team but there shouldn't be any expectation to carry."

See, I don't really care whether I'm mid-gold or low platinum, or somewhere around there. The thing I'm noticing is that people see the plat badge, and assume I'm that much better than the rest of the players in the game. 
I'll probably drop down to SR 2300 and stabilize around there, but that silly badge will follow... And since I'm always playing with my buddy (no idea how he placed that low, we had five of the placement wins together), I'll pretty much always be the only plat in the game. 

And since I'm incapable of typing out my concern in plain text, I'll try again: Will this plat badge haunt me all season? Or will people manage to just play the game, instead of asking/expecting me to carry?

So the accurate saying is "people are only expected to carry in lower ranks"? Which means OP is even more wrong.
I hover in the 3.2k range lately. Every now and then I get one of those games with GM's in it.

Most recently was last weekend where I ended up in a game with a team SR of over 3.6k. I simply commented "I don't belong here..." in voice chat and everyone got a good chuckle out of it. It was one of the calmer and relaxed matches I've been in for awhile, even though we lost a pretty close game on Kings Row. 
Ok, tell that to people in lower rank games. I'm not saying that's what you should do, I'm saying that's what happens.
As someone who is shocking at Mercy I agree. Also positioning is pretty damn key with her - you definitely can't just pick her up and hold mouse 1 all game without thinking.
  
  
Plus the fact it feels so *wrong* not healing anybody and sodding off to hide that I have a hard time doing it; and I'm not sure before hand if we can just win the fight with me simply healing instead.... fkin Mercy hardest hero in the game.
I think part of the problem (and what I find hard as Lucio) is that in low ranks/my games at least he's regarded as a full on healer and often the second support will think "ok we have a healer" and be a symmetra or an ana who mostly shoots enemies. So, in order not to lose, I often end up being on heal almost full time as I have to heal a lot (and I'm bad as other healers so I can't really switch) unless I'm with my friend who regularly plays Zen/Mercy. If that is representative, a lot of people will climb up with the idea that Lucio needs to heal bc thats kinda true in the low ranks...
For sure. Kill me. Don't be threatened by the blaster...it does surprising damage, but I can't aim for shit. 
Mercy only heals 60hps.  If you can get 2 or 3 people shooting Rein, focusing him is fine. 

His shield also can't regenerate when he's using it to block. His attacks are short range, his hitbox is huge and Mercy can't burst heal. 
Okay I retract my statement. Below plat, possibly even plat, you can carry.

I can't even fathom bronze, low masters feels like a shit fest to me.
It's all shiny at the end of the day tho u kno ;D
My alt account says otherwise, easily carried out of gold with like an 85% almost 90% winrate. And that was on characters I'm not even that good with. If you're 1000 SR above the rest of the match you should usually be able to carry rather easily. The same way a gold could stomp the shit out of a bronze game.
I dunno. I've seen a platinum Tracer wreck our team of low golds. No answer for her, nobody could deal. 

How many games do you win with a leaver 5v6? That's what Tracer did to us every fight. By the time we were able to get organized with dva body guarding healers and grouping up,  the other team had a huge ult advantage and snowballed. Just broke us down. 




I see where you're getting to, yes if they play their normal "trickle fight" and "bad ulting" play style that gold and below do, then trying to be a sole carry will be tough, but mark my words that one Diamond would be a huge issue for any of the opposing gold team heros.. shear mechanics will dominate and much better positioning.. think about the gold healers and how they are almost always out of place and how fast a diamond soldier could wreck that, plus a Pharah, practically just floating still in the air in the open not using her concussive blast at all to move herself.. or a bastion that never moves out of sentry mode, one helix and half clip and done. I understand that coordination sucks and he'll be on that team, but coordination sucks for the enemy at this level too, and the diamond player will exploit that much better and live longer. I don't think we are going to totally see eye to eye on this, and that's ok, they are opinions, a diamond rank will never be in a gold rank match anyway.
>Will this plat badge haunt me all season? Or will people manage to just play the game, instead of asking/expecting me to carry?

Simply put. No. It won't. Badges don't follow you around anymore. They removed that this season. If you drop into gold you'll have a gold badge. The only way someone would know that you ever even touched plat was if they go look at your season high.

Now, if you stay in plat then you'll have that plat badge. I sit mid-high plat, personally, and play with friends that are mid-high gold. I get plenty of matches where I am one of the only, or the only, plat badge and I've never had people expect anything of me like carrying the game.

Most people in the high gold, low plat range know that there are those who will fluctuate around that 2500 divider. They'll go up and down and the badge doesn't really mean anything. I've, personally, ever experienced any unreasonable expectation of my badge but I know that my experience isn't specifically representative of anyone else's.

Not that it matters anyway. Like I said before, badges don't follow you anymore.
I suppose that's one way to look at it. "Carrying" is a silly thing to worry about, though. You carry by outperforming everyone else, and specific plays are just a part of good gameplay. You don't have to 1v6 the enemy team ever, you just have to have a big impact on the match; that could be getting an entry pick as Zenyatta, or keeping orbs on the right targets all game while coordinating focus fire in comms, or saving Transcendence and "tanking" Tracer well enough to be present to save the day against Graviton Surge (to give an example for one character, but it applies to anyone).
I don't doubt that one bit. He is a delicate balance of healing and speed support. When you don't have another healer you'll spend a lot of time in healing for sure.
I've had my fair share of Mercy's kill me. Mostly when I'm on DF. They catch me with my abilities on cd and I only have 4 shots. They get many more chances to kill me than I get to kill them. Plus, unless I'm right up on them, that shot gun does shit for damage.
because low master is a shitfest, even high master is. overwatch ranks lost quality over each season and got further inflated.
You carried yourself out of gold? Or a team of gold?
Again it's probably, especially if the team of golds do as they're told and are smart enough to just "protect the president" (in this case the Tracer), but we're talking about consistent ideal conditions (or a 6 stack). But if they're duo queuing, that means there's 4 strangers, or 4 variables that is harder to control. If he wanted to carry, it's best to 6 stack. Wayy easier.
I think we actually are a lot closer =) I think I balk at the word "carry" and perhaps it comes down to what one thinks "carry" implies. For me, a carry is easy. It's a steamroll. I have used carry in diamond/master games, but I've used it sarcastically because it was quite a struggle and even though I did scrape a win and so was a testament of my skill, I didn't steamroll.  So I didn't really carry (in what I view a carry means). 

I definitely agree a diamond can live longer and so capitalize on mistakes. But I wouldn't see it as carry (because again of how I define carry).

But you're right, that's why these are opinions =) All the best!
Heyoo. All my problems are solved then. If I stay in plat, I'll have SOME expectations to contribute more than 1/6, but that's how it's supposed to be. Fantastic!

I have no idea what we're debating, you're completely off topic. I'm saying OP sounds like a dick for laughing at lower leagues. Besides, a soldier with diamond aim in gold will definitely *hard carry*, as in be the major reason that his team wins the game. Getting all the key final blows, dealing the most damage, making all the big plays etc.
When I saw a stream of a masters game that had widow+hanzo both refusing to switch I gave up my goal of reaching top rank. Comp is a potential shitfest at all levels so now I'm just happy being at a level where i feel like most of the people I play with and against are at same level as me
I, one diamond player, carried games consistently throughout gold. So 11 gold players, and me, 1 diamond.
You too
Extra bonus, even if you end the season in gold with a gold badge, you still get the CR rewards for hitting plat. You still get rewarded for your highest rank you hit regardless of where you end, same as before.
If you manage to stay in plat, it means you probably are already doing more than your 1/6th :).
And that's why my only goal each season is to record some sick plays and maintain a seasonal peak sr of 2000+, without caring that I've been placed in low plat the past 3 seasons. Just working to enjoy the act of trying in each match and maintain a level head in comp is the only real advice I can give to most people complaining about horrible views on comp.
I'm finding it hard to believe you carried, and not, "I struggled to wrangle a win". I've played with my lower level friends and it was a mess, even when we had plats in the game. It only worked because we were friends and so had some coordination, and it was basically me strategizing and telling them what to do and they listened. The possibility I see is what one user suggested, which is spawn camping (or focusing on their healer), even then this is hoping everyone listens to you and does what they're told and focuses on the objective. 
This isn't me 6-stacking with a bunch of golds, this is me solo queue in gold as a diamond, on an account that started around there. It wasn't all that difficult to carry most of my games. Every once in a while you run into one that your backpack just wasn't big enough, but they were the exceptions. And even those, I could usually trace the loss back to something I should have or could have done to prevent it. With a 3.3k player on one team and 6 2.3k players on the other, is it really so hard to believe the one with the 3.3k player usually wins? Seems pretty basic to me
Nah dude its kinda like the gold players stand at weird enough spots it just breaks dkwn into 1 v 1s and then when they group you ult.
I agree, Im a tank/healer main 3.2k and got a smurf, late, last season, was placed 2250(mostly bc of picking dps heroes I was bad at, but wanted to play comp with). When I played Tracer (probably my best dps) I got like 60-70%kill participation untill like 2.5k pretty easily. Even won a couple games with a player less. 

Former top 500 player and semi professional coach going to offer free coaching!
Hello everyone! Many of you probably have no idea who I am and some of you may remember me from many months back but either way I'm here to try and help people! So here is a short bio on myself with a TLDR at the end!

My name is Bbonecapone and in March of this year I started some free 1 on 1 coaching sessions! After a short period i moved on to attempting to coach overwatch professionally I worked with multiple teams and had trial periods with splyce before they disband and with the current envision roster. Along with working with these 2 teams I spent a large amount of time with top 500 players trying to go pro and learnt alot about the game and now I want to pass the knowledge on to you! If you want to take a look at my coaching style I will put a link at the bottom with the TLDR to my previous coaching sessions. All systems are welcome!  (pc, Xbox, ps4).  If you would like to be coached I would request you have recent vods available that I can look over.  If you wish to just have a vod review that is fine I can do 1 on 1 or pure vod review for you.  All coaching sessions will be uploaded to my YouTube channel for you to review!

TLDR: former top 500 worked with pro players and many top 500 players coaching as a team and individually and now I want to help you get better.

YouTube channel: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCrJe5j7VA3fnuqQmg2hIbeQ

EDIT: Please do not pm or comment with vods! I can chat with you via pm but all vods must be sent by email (links are fine) to Bbonecapone@hotmail.com

EDIT 2: People coming in fast and furious Jesus so I guess I'll set up a discord to keep my shit organized! So keep an eye on this thread! Also I will only be able to do 1-2 vod reviews a week so people will have to be patient!

EDIT 3: https://discord.gg/ufRXU4y
join this discord and everyone who wishes for coaching can chat with me in there!I love what you're doing here. I'm an ex-GM widow main (not a 1-trick, I flex heal while primarily healing with Ana, and also can play most hitscan dps) but I haven't practiced/played seriously for a solid month or two. Last season was pretty rough for someone like me who's main heroes were countered to all hell by the meta, and so I ended up losing passion for the game. 

Anyway, my skill has gotten rusty so I figure that now is a better time than ever to try to improve my game sense at least to a level that a good player wouldn't consider as just garbage. If I manage to spark my passion for competitive again, then I'd love to learn everything you have to teach. Lemme know if you'd like anything from me, like My bnet, VODs from previous seasons or this season, etc. 

I'm a PC NA player by the way. I have a mic and recording software. I'd love to work with you and get any insight that I can. 
I am very interested in some coaching.  I don't have anything current recorded, but I can do that in the next couple of days.

I started competitive season 3 and didn't do much more than get placement and think i ended in the 1400s.  After placement Season 4, around 1200,  I decided to main Zarya and did so for that season.  I think i peaked just into gold and floated around 1800 most of the season.  Season 5 I decided to main symettra, peaked just into platinum and ranged 2200-2400 most of the season.

This season I decide I would main Lucio/Zenyatta depending on number of people in chat (calling out discords seems to really help team focus fire) and maps.  place 2300 and and am currently 2210.

I'm not sure why or how I decided to switch mains every season, it just seemed like a fun thing to do to keep that game fresh.  Half the time there seems to be a lack of healing, which was why I picked who I have. I could still work on the character I wanted to even when we have 5 dps and myself.  I mostly solo que.  

psn craig_924
xb craig924
I am an ex high gold - low Plat player. Placed terribly this season. Trying to make it to Plat again. Currently at 1790 Sr.

Really appreciate what you are doing. 
I'm a 6 season plat and have recently committed to solo queue my way to GM. I've set up a twitch account and record all my games individually. I rewatch losses on my phone throughout the day.

I'm willing to play 6-8 hours a day , 5-6 days a week.

If you are ever available, please stop by. I am looking for all the direction I can get.

 
Thanks for doing this! I'm new to the game and a Pharah main. I'm trying to get better on XBone. So, I know that she is very movement and splash damage based, my question is: how do I get better at balancing her abilities? Many times I notice I've used an ability in combat and then can only slowly retreat, many times getting shot down in the process. How do I get better at balancing her cool downs?
Not at the moment though. 
I've peaked 3750 s5 as a hanzo main, recently made it to a dps position in a mid-masters team and need to get better at tracer, soldier, Cree and pharah. Would you be able to help me with that? 
How long will this offer last? I am a Rein/winston/zarya three trick at masters looking to broaden my hero pool but I don't feel like I'm there yet
https://youtu.be/xxi-_mQKGE4 Here us a vod of me.playing tracer I have a full comp cod if you would like I could pm you the while thing my gt is :mcardinals744 if you would like 5o.talm to me I also have discord and Skype and would love some coaching
You're awesome! Ima try and get a good vod tonight, I absolutely slayed in the placement matches as genji but still was placed gold, really has me down because in ffa and quick play I'm always with masters but I think I just have tons of comp grinding ahead of me
3900 sombra main, I'll send you some vods when I get the chance?
Ahh this is so nice. Glad to see you're offering help on multiple platforms, since I'm on PS4. :^ )

I'm primarily a D.Va player, though I do know how to play other tanks and switch to Mercy when healer is needed. Last season I hit 3600 and ended at 3501, after placements (2-8, siiiigh) and losing a few games, I'm only 3200. 

Will definitely get some footage together when I can! Quick questions, do you prefer the games to end in a loss or does it not matter? Also, I don't get on voice but join team chat, is it still okay to req a vod? :^ ) 

Thanks in advance!
Hey I am a bronze pharah junkrat main who flexes a lot. I am not at home, but can I send you some vids today or tomorrow to review? Thanks

All heroes i play:

Soldier, pharah, junkrat, bastion, orisa, dva, lucio, mercy


What heroes would you consider yourself most valuable for? I'm sure someone at your level can help with anyone, but are there some you'd consider yourself more knowledgeable with then others? 
Thanks so much for offering!

I'm a support main (mostly Ana and Zen, but recently some Sombra and Lucio) who scrims with a team.

On a positive note, my team has been climbing SR recently by 6-stacking, so we're now mostly masters. However, we've been struggling in scrims way more than usual. I emailed you a link to some VODs in hopes you can help. :)
Wow definitely taking you up on this.

Any specific role youre looking for? Im a tank main trying to figure out if I need to go dps for comp.
So do you coach only specific characters you're good with or do you do all of them?

I got to GM season 5 with Winston, Tracer, and Soldier, but I've never had outside review so I'm curious to try it.
Thank you so much =) I sent you my Tracer VODs. 
PS4 fringe-diamond player (mainly dps/ flex to tank). I would love to have some external feedback. 

1.) What's a vod?

2.) How can I make and send this from my PS4? Do I need a special recording software? 


Hey, thanks for doing this! I'll send out an email soon
Hi Bbonecapone.

I am a consistent GM player, I have made GM every season since S1 but I hit a wall.

I have never been able to get past 4200s.

I have seen and played and won decently against known/pro players but overall I still hit that wall at 4200s.

I mainly soldier, zen or monkey.

I would say my mechanical aim is above average and I put a heavy emphasis on good positioning/high ground and denying enemy space.  No matter how hard I try I seem to be stuck in 4200s at best.

Any quick tips?
I actually have an amateur team for the OWUL. We're about a 3.4-3.5k average team who scrims pretty often, and always looking to improve. I know you've got alot of requests on here, so I understand if you aren't interested, but let me know if you are. Thanks for doing what youre doing :) 
I actually had a widow 1 trick account in gm as well so I know your pain! And if you do find the passion I would be more than happy to help!
Hey man I can do my best to help you out! When you have some footage send me a pm!
Do you have any vods?
So yes I can help you but before I say more please do not quit your job/school hoping to go pro in overwatch because that is not realistic from plat in a short period. Yes it is great to improve but these must be other areas of focus on life
Cooldowns are only a small part of pharah you positioning is much bigger being near effective cover you can get to quickly
One really good thing to practice is knowing the map well and where you can use vantage points for peaking, play as if you were a floating widow maker, Spamming rockets can be incredibly effective and peaking constantly can avoid two of three of Pharah's worst enemies being McCree and Soldier ( a good widow will probably take the chance to try and head shot you if you keep peaking the same spot over and over).
Ok so once you get some vods hit me up! And we can talk more
I can defiantly help you with that!
Where did you find a masters team and do you need more members? 
As long as I have videos to upload is the goal!
Edit my sr at this recording was 2130
Pleas pm me I will not be taking vods from this thread
Yes you will have to grind! And sounds good
That will do!
I dont care about end game results and voice comms are not a must there are lots of other ways to climb! join the discord for more questions :D
best way to reach me with the vod is through email or joining me on discord
At this point I am very comfortable on every hero I know how their mechanics work and their jobs the only one I probably can't help you with would be hanzo cause I never have played him or coached a hanzo due to him never being meta
Shoot Me a message on discord and we can talk more!
I can help at any role!
I can help with every character!
So on ps4 it's a little more difficult the easiest way is to stream In 720 and save the stream and get it from twitch after!
With out watching at that Elo not many quick tips dying is one thing you should keep an eye one
Awesome. I haven't placed yet because I don't want to jump into comp just yet, but I am looking to get back into "shape" so to speak before I place on my main.
I have an alt account that I somehow managed to place in low master, so I can use that to play in a competitive environment while getting the rust off. 

If you'd like to start tonight, I'd be happy to. I get home most days around 5-6pm EST, sometimes earlier, and I'm usually playing for most of the day on Saturday/Sunday. Would you want to work with me tonight if you're able? If so, what do you have in mind? If not, what are good times for you?
I recorded a couple after I posted and have sent you a pm with a link.  

For anyone who is curious:

https://www.twitch.tv/videos/173257767
I have my life comfortably under control, thank you for your concern. I have zero intention of ever going pro and I'm giving my self about 6 months to pull it off.

I view this as a similar experience to when I got legend in hearthstone. The commitment isn't to be taken lightly. 

I have all the needed gear. I7, 144hz, 150fps,  clicky keyboard and decent enough mouse.

I'm also not interested in being twitch famous. 




Sure man! 
Nice! How can I contact you? Discord or anything else?
Sounds great. So I just gotta send a VOD your way via pm and we can arrange a 1on1 coaching?
Awesome! Thanks for doing all this!
Pm me and we can talk further
Fair enough I just want to be sure :D if you can get a vod I can help you out!
On Reddit for now and for sending in vods I have a email for the vods
change of plans my reddit is exploding lol so i am moving to a discord server!
join the discord and we can chat more yes
There are 20 or so on my page, and I make 20 ish a day. I don't have a specific one at this point as I'm just now experiencing the "oh hell I didn't realize how bad of a teammate I am" from watching my own vods.

You are welcome to use any of them for your yt content. I do talk over them and say stupid plat things, so hopefully nothing is viral meme worthy.

I'm willing to put in the work to reflect your coaching ability. If you see a vod and have direction, I'll be happy to provide you with the resulting gameplay(same map/situation, same hero) after it's implemented.

If it's content you need, I would gladly trade endless amounts of it for game sense.
join the discord and we can chat more through that
Ow unit discord, didn't know there was one. I'll find it

Edit: nevermind, I seen you edited the post
I just made it lol

How I would raise the skill floor and ceiling for Mei while still strengthening the fantasy of the character.
TLDR : change her primary fire so that it no longer freezes enemies, but it slows them to a set speed much quicker, and possibly reduces movement abilities distance by 50%. Freeze time may need to be reduced on the ult slightly. 

Right now Mei is very rarely used in competitive as she has a role that can only be used in specific situations. At the same time she is a bit strong against completely new players as she can just freeze them and put an icicle through their heads while having a ton of survivability. This makes buffing or nerfing her directly problematic as it would make her too strong against completely new players or even weaker at high levels which runs counter to what blizzard wants. 

My proposed change would be to change her primary fire so that it no longer freezes enemies, but it slows them to a set speed much quicker, and possibly reduces movement abilities distance by 50%. The numbers would have to be tweaked a bit for how much they are slowed and how much damage is done. 

Here are the reasons why listed out. 


Raise the skill floor and ceiling- This would greatly reduce her ability to 1v1 opponents as she would need her icicles in order to finish people off without freezing them. She could use the slow to on her primary fire to make aiming easier, but would need to know how to manage when to use either attack while the enemies' attack speed would be the same. Aim would be needed to secure kills on her own and coordination with team would be needed to kill the slowed enemies with the group. Mei would be much more forced to stick with the group and work with teammates to secure her kills. 

Some heroes she becomes better against//
Lucio - Mei would become the best counter to Lucio in this situation since her ability to slow goes to a set rate it would negate the speed boost effect if she focuses on hitting as many targets as possible with her slow. During team fights this would become more of a priority and give her the unique option of hitting as many enemies as possible rather than focusing in on killing individual enemies like most dps heroes. I think this would be a fun way to make fighting with her even more unique and differentiate her role. 
Mercy - in a team fight the ability to slow her quickly would make targeting her much easier for you and teammates as she is typically the first enemy you want to kill. She would rarely get close to Mei though only during big brawls. 
Genji and tracer - Mei becomes much better at zoning these heroes as they wouldn't be able to jump in on supports and just dash or blink away right before being frozen. The ability to escape would be there but it would force them to be smarter about when and how to attack. Mei would be a stronger pick against mobility. The advantage of their speed would be taken away as the slow would be to a set rate   
Zarya - Zarya would still be a strong pick against Mei, but the cleanse wouldn't be as useful to stop a freeze right before it happens you would need to pop it earlier to reduce being slowed or later to try and escape. 

Characters weaker against-
Orisa - Orisa doesn't move much anyway and you couldn't wait out the fortify to just freeze her and head shot. Creates more of a skill matchup
Road hog - you wouldn't be able to keep freezing him and headshotting until he does one on one in what used to be the longest battles ever. 
Dva - she would still be able to fly away when she needed to and you couldn't just freeze he so the team can focus her down. 
Bastion - if you manage to get close you won't be able to just freeze him as he runs
Reaper (maybe) - this would increase your ability to kite him, but you wouldn't be able to finish him off as easily when caught with wraith form on cooldown

Synergies - this would make her work really well with slower healers like zenyatta and Ana as you would be better able to help defend them. It would also help a lot with accuracy based heroes as you would be able to slow enemies in brawls and better allow them to line up shots. 




Maintaining her identity as a character - Mei is supposed to be a lovable character fighting for the greater good. By slowly lining up an icicle through the skull she has developed more of an evil reputation. With this change she would be more of a protector and less "devil incarnate". 
This would also further her role at higher levels as a crowd control character as it would make the slow useful instead of only using the icicles for damage. Her focus would be on maintaining the tempo of combat. All the great uses with ice wall would remain 
The change would also have a big effect on her ult. It would make those moments where the enemy is frozen all the more exciting since you don't freeze with your normal attack. It would also encourage more follow up from Mei to slow enemies from running out of the affected area. The freeze time on the ult might need to be slightly reduced to compensate, but if that were the case you would have an ult that is more effective when planned ahead where you can slow them before they escape, and it would be less effective to just throw out and use ice block as you wait for enemies to freeze. I always hated this tactic on 2 cp to stall. 


Overall effect on the meta - this would all depend on how the numbers are tweaked. I think it would definitely be a step in the right direction though. It would give Mei a more unique role in the game. It would be the only true way to counter lucio and would make accuracy based characters more useful when she is in play both as a synergy and as her counter. Grouping and communication would be far more vital for her to be effective. 
If this Mei became meta I think you would see more mccree, Orisa, widow, hanzo, rein, Ana, and zen


Bonus point 1 : her primary was mostly used for killing enemies before where now it would be more about crowd control. It makes more sense to switch left and right click, which many Mei players do anyway. 

Bonus 2: this change to Mei would further open up to the possibility of a character with an aoe cleanse as a strong counter... maybe a new healer to add to the roster...

How to land ana shots onto an enemy genji?
Hey first time poster on this subreddit. When I duel genjis I know how to hit sleep darts on them, however, I don't know when it is best/how to hit them with my unscoped rifle shots. Thanks for the helpQuick scope. It makes it way easier. 
Play more
Ah ok, whenever I tried to duel them with scoped shots I would make myself an easier target. So I shouldn't just straight up scope but instead quickscope?

Elo Hell? Need Advice On Climbing
Hi there.

Recently I've been having a lot of issue rising out of Gold. I've done it a few times -- I was Platinum in Season 4 or 5...but recently I've found that nothing I do helps me consistently win and rise up the rankings. I've tried going support, but then teammate tanks and DPS fail to secure space or eliminate targets enough for us to break a choke or stop an attack. I've tried staying on tank, but then supports pocket a DPS or for some reason they position themselves across the map from me. I've tried DPSing, but I can only kill the people I can, and some matches are better than others. It seems like no matters where I position myself or what I flex into, there's huge gaps in game sense from everyone else. I've tried bridging that with other teammates, but of the 2 or 3 people that go into voice chat, no one seems to want to work together. No one wants to focus one target at a time, choosing to kill whoever is in front of them. No amount of coddling seems to get any teams to want to work together...and honestly at this moment I'm frustrated and at a loss of what to do. For everyone win I manage to get, I get two losses. I understand that this is a team game, but when I'm trying to rise up with uncooperative, unhelpful teammates...I just don't understand what I can do to improve anything. I'm sure that my frustrations are echoed by a lot of people here. Perhaps if someone who was able to deal with this and still rose has any tips or anything I can do to help, that would benefit me.

As an aside, I haven't discounted that the common element in all of these matches -- me -- could be why I'm not rising. But through VOD coaching and my general consistency in playing, I've been told by more than one person in Masters+ that I should be much higher than I currently am.

  Play more
At first I thought this would be a salty gold player complaining about teammates, but reading further I can see it's not that. Unlike others who write these posts, you aren't putting everything down to your teammates. 

What have you changed? My advice is to not go support. Go dps or tank at least. Try to queue with friends. After three losses, stop playing. 

But possibly the best tip is unfortunately just to get good. Don't have master players say you should be plat or higher. Have the game say you should be plat or higher. The thing players call elo hell is more like elo swamp. You're not stuck down there, but it slows things down. You'll climb much less per session than you should, but you'll still climb. 

The last point I have is something I don't think you need. Elo hell is a mindset, which holds you back. It tilts you quicker, makes you triggered by the hero select screen. You see a torb on your team, and you think that's just elo hell making the game unwinnable. That's why I hate it when people talk about elo hell being real, because they are the ones causing it.
this.

How is this even possible as Genji?
https://www.reddit.com/r/Overwatch/comments/6yynrn/most_satisfying_way_to_end_a_dragonblade/

How the fuck is he slashing so quickly? Not only do i count more than 7 slashes, but i swear to god some of them are like .5 seconds apart?!?!Essentially he animation cancels the swing animation by dashing, that's why it appears that he's swinging more than 7 times, but it looks legit
Genji does a similar animation with his dash as his ult. There's a slight visual difference though.
Genji's dash attack resets back to being ready to use again whenever Genji gets a kill.

When you ultimate as Genji, you can get quite a few kills, meaning your dash cooldown resets several times. It looks like Genji is slashing a lot in this killcam because some of the slashes are actually dash attacks.
Genji main here. That's normal. I do that all the time. Go watch Necros. 
Does the slash still do damage? Can i slash, immediately dash, immediately slash again, and hit both slashes?
Yes.
:O

Requesting VOD review- aim wise
Hi, a few weeks ago I was able to play at decent/sub-par accuracy as tracer. However, over the past few days I have been trying to tweak my sens as I felt that my current sensitivity was making aim a little shaky than normal. So after experimenting for quite a while I realised that I probably should stick to my old sens as I was accustomed to it. However, as I switched back, the shaky problem when aiming got even worse. I assume its due to all those tweaks I did which messed up somewhere but I'm not sure where. 

Below are two links that I would like reviews on how i can improve my aim and possible solutions to these problems I'm facing. 

Link 1 (initial aim where it wasn't shaky): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vWqr0wDbkFE&list=PLZ707pe6SNMCKfrtpxfHbSA_kbWZy_CI1


Link 2 (after tweaks which made it worse IMO): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YhAejpyjhbk


Edit: my current sens/dpi is 3.8/1600
Did i deserve my losingstreak?
I dropped from 3500 to 2600 Sr. I earned the 3.5k rating through 5 seasons now im back to where i was back in season 2 but at the same time i can maintain mid diamond while practicing heroes on my alt account. I dont tilt much so i really dont know if its my fault or not that i had this losing streak. What can i do to climb out because regardless of what i play if my team loses it loses so hard you can literally not carry.
How long was the losing streak over? Like over a day, you probably should have stopped after a certain number of losses... 
Play more
1 week in season 5 and 3-4 days in season 6


Stuck in gold, want to get to plat. Any advice useful
Hello all. I am a mid gold player that has been fluctuating between 2200 and 2300 (though I dipped just yesterday to 2100 and I am climbing again back to where I was. Plat is just in reach but every time I get close, I just fall back down again. I know that I probably should be in gold, but I just want some advice so how I improve so I can rank up.Just recently made plat after a year of playing. I recommend watching some strategy videos on YouTube and being more thoughtful when you play. You have to evaluate every decision you make and know your role. I main zenyatta and focusing on my positioning has done wonders. 
Ever had a "insert hero here" player on the other team that just destroys your team? Friend them, then duo queue. That's basically how i went from 2300-2500. Now sitting at 3100.
Work around your team, be the voice of reason,  and play comp like a quick play. When I stopped letting the pressure of "competitive" get to me I got way better
I'm also a Zen main clocking in at 3585 (I also play other support/tank heroes), if you send me a VOD I can help you out :)
When one learns to use ones teammates abilities like they are ones own abilities, one transcends. When one learns to predict the use of ones enemies abilities, one transcends again. 
I have been doing that for a while and I also main zen. There is only so much I can do as I am one man. I try to improve but when your team is trickling and getting killed off, its hard to climb. I also have myself to blame as my aim is not the worst but could be better.

Nice Zen mains 4 life. Accuracy is another thing I've been working on a lot. Some video said to try and keep it above 40% so that's why I try to do. Staying calm and picking my shots in close encounters instead of firing as fast as possible has helped a lot. Also, do you talk? Even if no one else is on their mic it's amazing how much people will listen if it sounds like you know what you're doing. The first time I told someone to stop rushing in, and they did, I was shocked! 

You're probably doing all of that already too. Anyway, good luck!

EDIT: And work on your Alt Fire!! I didn't use it for my first 80 hours or w/e. It's awesome 
Set your dps up for success. 

Did your Genji just pull out his blade? Is he going in on anything that can ruin his day? (Mccree, Winston, Roadhog, etc) Transcendence and join him unless its a guaranteed won fight. This one is tricky though, you generally want to make sure you have a Mercy, Symmetra TP or Lucio because if the enemy Genji decides to pull his blade out next, you're going to need a defensive ult or wipe insurance, hence the other 3 heroes. Ana doesn't have a defensive ult.

Take a peek at who your dps are shooting. Discord that target and help with orbs. Focus firing is ridiculously overpowered if you can do it right. Even in mid diamond I think focus fire is the number one controllable reason for win/loss. 

Have a friend or make a friend who can run a Genji or Tracer and do some 1v1 scenarios. You won't win many, you shouldn't win many. But being able to successfully stay alive an extra 3 times out of 10 and maybe win once or twice can make or break a match, specially during overtimes. This will also help you play under pressure.


I do talk and try to keep the team together but some people just don't like it. I love alt fire and definately will try to pick my shots

this.
What?

Deathmatch matching with people 2k SR more.
Lately in deathmatch, the matchmaking doesn't seem to be working properly. I am a (mid-high) gold player. In deathmatch however I keep being matched with High diamond-Grandmaster players. If im at 2.2k SR, how can they match me wih 4.3k SR players?

[Example](https://imgur.com/a/5tOqK)Deathmatch has its own set of skills specific to that mode, I wouldn't worry to much about the enemy SR
My SR is around 4.2-4.3. I find it confusing when there are gold-diamonds in DM. They are just essentially getting farmed by the GMs, and it becomes a race to who can hit 20 by ignoring the other GMs. I don't understand the arguments made by others here that they belong there - they don't. It's just that there are not enough GMs queuing.
Dm has a split mmr from qp and comp.  You will sometimes get new Dm players that are high elo. 

Furthermore if you are getting higher skilled players in your games , it means your skills are getting into the higher elo ranges. This is a good thing. It shows that your mechanics are improving and you will face harder opponents.

Be glad you're fighting high skilled players because you might join them soon. 
it's not a whole lot of fun playing with silvers as a masters player either, i gotta say
The heros they play is almost irrelevant. I'm low diamond and I played against a gm in dm who picked mercy and got second place(i got second XD). I had to ignore the mercy as pharah because she would kick my ass half the time. Next game the same dude picks reaper and got first place no problem, (I think I was third)

I had one game with the junkrat streamer pvp. He was top 500 last season and oh shit. I don't even remember that game because I was dead. I got last place and it wasn't even enjoyable. When I looked through my social that match had 2 top 500s and a couple gms
I actually like coming up against very high ranked players as it's great practice, but this sucks when you are in just for a couple casual relaxing games trying out heroes you don't usually play.
When I come 6th-8th every game because I keep getting rekt by GMs frustrates me. I need to play against higher level people to improve, but they shouldn't be so much higher that I can't do anything.
This is a lame response to this problem. I'm low plat and have been in an FFA match with two top 500's. Matches with multiple people master and gm, etc. It is zero fun to try to play against people who are measurably significantly better at the game than you. (I should also note I often see low\mid gold in these very same matches, those poor bastards)

Just because the skill set for FFA is different (and yeah, it really is different) people who are 1000-2000 SSR better than you are always going to be better mechanically and with game sense... or you'd usually be the same rank.

The queue time for FFA (for me anyway) is usually under 30 seconds. I would GLADLY wait several minutes if it had a good chance of not being an unbalanced crapfest.

The way most matches like this go are pretty much Blizzard sponsored bullying.
i was curious if high ranked people thought like this but yeah, it feels like this. it feels like the both high ranked genjis ignore each other and kill the third between them, throw a few shuriken at each other and then they see the mccree who dared to throw a flash at one genji, and bam, next kill
yeah, no offense but a 4+ ana is better than my shitty 3k sombra (best hero) or any other hero i obviously play like platinum. its sometimes incredible to see a master support player playing a DPS and crushing me. its just strange, i get it, somehow we are all in the same game but it never feels right. its not even that i look into the stats, just when that genji could steal my kill and kill me again i look up and see the higher rank and i ask myself "what should i have done better to not die", so i learn something, but its frustrating as fuck
I guess I play DM for different reasons, I'd love to practice against t500s, and I don't care if I'm in the top 4 that much. 
I do have to agree that having a range of skills in a game is great for learning. As a low plat, playing against diamonds is a great learning experience a lot of the time.

Playing against GMs just makes me feel like shit most of the time. Their reaction speed and accuracy is just so much better that its no fun. Especially when they are shitting on you and you see that its on a hero they have <10 hours on and you are playing a main with 100~ hours. Demoralizing.
Same here. At least it will just be hitscans and Genjis instead of all junkrats and doomfists.

How do you even win when on defense?
I have played 28 games of payload pushing and have lost on defense every single time. How do you even play this game when your guaranteed to lose half the time? The team comps according to the game seems to be fine but every time I play on defense I lose. If I go on offense I win 99% of the time but on defense I have not won a round yet? How do you properly play defense?In my experience with playing defence, you need a lot more coordination and communication than playing offence. I also find myself playing defence characters or even healers much more aggressively than if I was on offense, so perhaps the best defense is a good offense?
Kill them.
Yes the passive play is my biggest frustration with the game. "They're getting close to us fall back and group up!" all the way to the endzone.

High K:D ratio but mediocre elims/dmg - should I be more aggressive?
Hi all

This season I am semi-maining McCree and I am running a 3.38 K:D ratio but finding that I'm racking up noticeably less elims and damage per game than I did last season. I think it's because I have climbed in SR enough to find myself in danger a lot more than last season, and I'm wondering whether I should play more aggressive to increase my elims and damage or maintain the high K:D ratio because being dead is problematic?

I know ultimately what matters is that I win games, but lately I have been feeling a bit ineffective even though my K:D ratio is high. Play more and you ll find your playstyle  it won t hurt to try to be aggressive tho 
I'm on the side of do what you can but don't die(because if you're dead then youre not doing anything). 

That said you want to push the envelope and not play too safe. 

Think to yourself if you advance on a more aggressive positioning what can the enemy do to deal with you and make you back down. If they do that then what is your escape route to get back into position to continue dealing damage. 

In short: Anytime you take an aggressive position know why you're doing it and how you'll react to the enemies trying to shut you down. 
Grind it out in the ffa deathmatch game mode. You'll get better at being aggressive. 
Well just try to feel flow of the match, if you have very good team you can be more agressive, yolo and experiment, if you have medium but solid team, play it safe. If you have very bad team and nothing works, try to go for sneaky flanks and YoLO hoping to get some surprise 1:3 kills and change flow of the game. Also remember to check Kill-Feed, can make your decisions based on that, especially when you have picks. 
Skyline has a mentality about aggression that I'd agree with. (He places top500 with support when he wants, he's amazing)

You want to play too aggressive at first every game to see how aggressive you can be. If you play it safe to start with, you never know what aggression level you can get away with. The best way to find the fine line, is to push it over the edge once.

This is hard to concentrate on in a game but I'll do it sometimes. It drives me nuts when we're on attack and right off the bat people are like 'OK PLAY SAFE BE CAREFUL'  Fuck that! it's attack, we can just respawn! Every attackers first push should be an all in brawl just to see if it works lol. 
best way to know to be more aggressive or not is to put yourself in dangerous situations (something like tracer) and see how long you can survive alone if you start instantly losing health keep practicing and if you survive a few seconds without healer or if you don't lose health really fast than you should play aggressively. if that's hard or challenging for you there's second solution. so if you go alone/lone wolf play style play aggressively or if you go with your team play little more defensively. hope this helped you 
Nothing matters more than winning. If your win rate is higher than 55%, don't change anything.
This. Coach Seksi recommends this approach too, with ZENYATTA. You need to test how much of a positional advantage the opponent is willing to give you, you'll be surprised how much you can get away with. By attempting aggressive plays, you achieve 2 things: you are able to detect other flankers attempting to do the same thing and you can draw the oppositions attention away from the main fight, increasing your teams chances of winnng the main fight. Note that this only really works in solo competitive, against coordinated six stacks, you have to be more careful.

I'm super shaky when the fight gets close to me, how can I change this?
As mentioned in the title, I've noticed that my close range combat is sorely lacking. My aim is relatively decent for distances, but if anyone enters like a 5m radius around me I shake like crazy and can't track them. Also, before anyone mentions it, my sense is already quite low (I'm not able to check my computer right now so I don't recall my sensitivity settings) and I've tried lowering them more, which only makes my overall aim worse.

To get a sense of how bad it is, I'll give an example of my McCree play in DM as I've been trying him a lot recently. I've been able to come second with 19 kills (so close!) as him on maps like Volskaya where there are big open spaces to track from afar, but when I get maps like Château Guillard with lots of cramped corridors, I've finished with literally 0 eliminations. 

I essentially think my problem is that I lowkey panic when people get too close to me so then I just start spraying and praying, but obviously that isn't working out for me.

So I suppose I'm wondering if anyone has some thoughts or tips and tricks that I could use to improve my close-range gameplay?

Thanks ahead of time!

Ps. Sorry if there are any formatting errors, I typed this on my phone.I'm in the same boat, not as much with shaky aim as crap aim. I think I just tend to assume that I have to make my shot as soon as possible, which is probably true some of the time, but I'd bet most of the time I've got a bit more leeway on reactions than I think. My advice would to be just slow down and breathe, maybe you die, but it's just a game
In DM, don't worry about elimination think about the fight. If you die that's fine. Try to keep that mindset. After you die really think about what they were doing and what was going on in your mind during that encounter. If their are too many people bail and find a 1v1 you can just work on close quarters maneuvering. 

Just practice that one thing over and over without worrying about anything else until you can slow down your mind in those situations and not panic. It's DM, no one is going to get mad at you.

If you're focused on practicing close quarters fighting only you can't focus on winning so don't worry about the score board. Go into the game knowing you're not winning that one.
8 or 9 years back at the height of TF2's  popularity I suffered terribly from performance anxiety (lol) and nervousness during close encounters as well. My best advice is to just play through it. It my be daunting and frustrating but don't stop grinding at locking in your close range game. 
You get to a point where you can sink back, asses, and have confidence in your abilities and reaction speeds. 
I put around 5k hours into TF2. Nothing tremendous, but I got anxious up until around the 2k hour mark. That's when I had my aha moment for PC FPS and suddenly all I saw was the code like Neo (in a fanciful way lmao) but I'm trying to describe a sense of something so bear with me. 
I'll dance toe to toe down hallways McCree vs McCree now and it's just another kill (or death) but usually a kill ;)  Hopefully you get to cut your teeth soon and start ending lives with face punches 
I would recommend practicing with tracer. She forces you to get up close and fight but her flashback gives you the ability to get out fast if youre not doing very well. Its great practice. 

I started playing her and notice that I dont get as scared when a symmetra or another tracer comes up to me. 
What helped me the most was just telling myself over and over "if you rush your shots you'll miss and lose, if you take that split second to aim you'll get them". Helped me get a lot better at getting genjis and tracers as a s76. 

Learning not to panic shoot takes time. My gut was always spray and pray like you mentioned. 
Who do you typically play as? That can change how you should react to some things. 
Go to DM and try to engage close fights as much as you can. Once you'll get used to it you won't panic anymore. Each time you 'd be in such situation after that it will be like "oh, as usual, I know what to do, I did it 1000 times, nothing special about this one".
I have this issue too, with Hog no less, and to a worse extent Orisa. When a Genji gets up in my face im not quite sure what to do. He just does backflips around me.
To practice close i have 2 suggestions. 
1 play zarya or tracer in training range to practice close up range tracking/ get used to being close  (moving bots) 

2 play them in deathmatch/ qp and practice and make an effort to play in your weak points

Low charge zarya takes good aim to track while tracer is all about being close
Play tanks for a while. You get used to being up in the enemy's face pretty quickly.
force self to stop tensing up took me months to stop for reasons. also you are probs grippping mouse hella tight.
Breathe in, Breathe in, Breathe out.
As others have said, the beautiful thing about Death match is you can engage into these specific scenarios over and over quickly, with much less at stake if you lose the fight. Practice it and build a rythym. It's a different skill set than mid/long range shots so you have to treat it like it's own thing
Acctually, having an low sens makes harder to fight up close in my opinion

I use higher sens when playing heroes like Lúcio, Genji, Reaper and Tracer...

An good thing to improve on this is going to QP on Genji and bully the sups, no need to fast killing, just keep shooting and avoiding them...

And of course, the best way to improve is keep doing close combats, the more you do, easier it gets
I'm not high-ranked but at my level, the only 1v1 opponents I'm not fully sure about are competent Junkrat and Pharah. Any other characters I floor if I meet them 1v1. But I used to be like you, panic-adrenaline rush whenever anything gets close-quarter (I used to main Ana).

Try learning Mei. Switch left and right mouse button so she's basically like a beefy projectile McCree. She's beefy (250 hp) so it's more forgiving when your reaction speed goes down bc of panic, and there's always a panic button if you are caught in a tight corner (shift).

Practice with TDM instead of FFA DM because it's more forgiving. (Everyone else is a decoy and you'll have more secure 1v1)

1. Start with scavenging (jumping out of corner, freeze and headshot the enemies flanking/running away). This is a low-key, low-pressure no-surprise 1v1 you initiate by sensing the enemy by the sound and waiting ahead. Roadhog, McCree, or Doomfist abilities can be ignored if you use the cryo at the right timing. This will build you some confidence.

2. The next step is to learn how to jump and strafe around the enemy to avoid getting hit while freezing. You can improvise and even jump over the enemy while freezing. Other characters can't slow enemies like her, but the steady aim, composure, and evasion skill transfers to other characters. (Especially completely freezing and nailing the icicle exactly on the head, and an additional melee combo)

3. The next is initializing the encounter with an icicle upfront. If you land the first shot correctly the enemy will panic (especially the headshot) and you'll know you can finish the job. If you know for sure you can make enemy panic, you will do so less.

4. Go unleash some meihem. Give a jumpscare, chase after enemy with tracking aim icicles, block their escape route with a wall (looking at you Reaper) - let them (and yourself) know that you own the 1v1 arena. You don't have to be completely comfortable with 1v1s; just learn how to make it as uncomfortable as possible to the enemy character (not only with Mei, but with any other characters. Like Winston dropping on top of the head). The less shaken person almost always wins.

extra. Try confronting Pharah in TDM. Doesn't have to be 1v1 (in fact, have a few teammates around who act as decoys), but it's one hell of a prediction flick shot practice in panic. Three body shot or one headshot one body shot can silence her, but can you do that before Pharah senpai notices you, especially if she's ulting? (hint, if at first you don't succeed, try, try again - but don't spray and pray at Pharah because it gives you a bad panic habit. If you don't land the shots you die, no biggies.)
either practice the big flicks you need to hit to track at close ranger or increase your sensitivity a little
I know this will sound weird but listen to some music while you play. SoundCloud has some great chill playlists which if you have a discord server with a bot you can just practice and chill. It gets you in a more relaxed mood but still let's you focus if you need. Another thing, take your time. If you're playing McCree don't hold LMB. If you're playing soldier 76, don't just burst fire every .5 second. Burst fire when you know your cross hair is in their player model. Take your time and relax, trust me, soon you'll be double dinking a genji as McCree like nothing.
Source: ex-McCree one trick + now hitscan main
Chew gum. Tricks your brain into thinking you are eating and therefore safe. Helps keep my breathing and heartrate in check. 
I think a good aim practise is to just go slow and make sure you hit. Aiming fast to clutch is all well and good, but you have to have a level of consistency to pull it off. I'd liken it to playing the piano. Maybe not the best way to learn, but when I learned I'd just start by playing a song slowly with minimal mistakes all the way through, then slowly start speeding up. Hope that helps!
Sounds more like a medical condition??  Are you prone to seizures?
Become a Winston main.
Stop being a puss. Its a game
Yeah I think this is mostly it. I was just getting really good with hogs slow shots by slowing down and really thinking about aiming them, but then he got reworked and I'm back to square one haha.
This sounds pretty logical, I'll try it out. Thanks!
Haha sounds good. This is pretty much all I play so I'll get there eventually!
Thats a good idea! I actually got pretty decent as tracer because I played her for the legendary difficulty of the standard version of the uprising event. Perhaps I've just not kept it up, as she is one of my least played heros in the game.
Yeah, like I mentioned in another comment, I too got to the point where I could slow down and nail those shots with old hog, but just as I got the hang of it, he got changed.
I play a lot of heroes haha, I go in phases in terms of who I do well with and enjoy playing, so I've mained someone different every season pretty well. In comp I've mained Zen/mercy, ana/soldier, winston/dva, hog, as well as flexing a fair amount. I pretty much like to play anyone in the game except genji and df... I suck at those two for pretty much the same reason in my post lol.
Sounds good! I'm getting the vibe that my solution is simply: play more in that situation and practice haha.
While spamming "mada mada" probably
I do play tanks, my top 10 most played in all modes consist of 4 tanks, 4 healers, and 2 dps lol
To be honest I don't think even tried Mei in DM yet. I'll give her a shot, see what happens!
Hahaha I would not have thought of anything like this.
This makes sense, as a music player I can relate. Thanks for the input!
Haha no I'm not, I guarantee its not that. As other people and myself have guessed its more just panicking and losing my calm.
Haha Winston is one of my most confident tanks to play, but I still lose track of people and shake with him. 
Go play 24 DM games and practice your aim. Consider lowering your sensitivty a little 
Recording those games may help so you can analyze the fights you lost later
First off, warm up with some stuff before you play. aimbooster.com is a great place to start and you can do drills and mini games that can keep you under pressure. Learning to deal with that pressure is key, as it will transfer to multiple places in games. 

Another thing that will help with it is to avoid it in comp. Unless you're choosing a hero who's made for finishing off a low-health enemy, stick to your team and call out help when you need it. Until you become confident in your ability to 1v1, you're a liability to the team when you're on your own. 

The confidence will rise as you start focusing and working on flaws in your play style. Don't expect it to change overnight, or even the following week. It's about progression. Start with the site I mentioned, then the shooting range, then some custom games where you are facing 6 bots by yourself, move to QP, and then slowly incorporate into your comp game. Do this with EVERY hero you play with. You'll have to learn first hand with your own settings how each individual hero feels at different distances. I've personally found playing custom games against bots with only headshots to really help my aim, especially with a tracer or two on the other team. But honestly, nothing beats real-world experience. Use arcade mode and QP to further your skills before it gets to where it matters in comp.

As for now, if you want to climb and win, stick to what you know best and cooperate with your team. Lean on them, allow them to lean on you, and make each other better. 

As always, look up some guides/VOD reviews and see what people are being critiqued on. I highly recommend OneAmongstMany on YT. He covers a ton of stuff in many videos, including positioning, situational awareness, teamwork, etc. Start recording your play and putting them up on the sub. There's plenty of people out there looking to help others! 
Always.
Oh, okay. Are you talking about nerves or just difficulties aiming? Because it is more difficult to hit a target when it's right in front of you and jumping around.
No problem. :) The key (heh) is to get it right first, then get it right fast. 
Oh I only paid attention to the title and thought you meant like full-body shaking not as in twitchy aim
Shaking won't matter with him, if the enemy is on screen and near you, you'll hit them. 
Thanks for the input! Perhaps I'll check out that site, and some VODs and whatnot.
To be honest its probably a bit of a combination of the two. between losing track of them and not being able to even hit them because I rush my shots and whatnot.
No worries, It happens! I'd be worried too if somebody was shaking all over.
This is true.

How do i improve my aiming (and in general)
Level 105 Gold player here (2247 rn) 

I really struggle with all forms of aiming, both tracking and flicking, although id say soldier is my strongest DPS by far. Ive been trying to lower my sense, train in practice range, train with ana bots, watching aim guides as much as i can, playing with crosshairs and i still feel like im always going to be stuck in gold 

I get on the voice chat every game, and think that on the whole my positioning with most heroes is good. I try my best to keep track of enemy ults and to combo my own with my team. 

What do i do to improve, am i just being way too impatient or is there something ive missed? 
Rewatch your gameplay. Just start out slow asking yourself am I in the right place, who should i focus, where is my team, etc. (If you do not know what to ask watch Iostux's coaching video. ) Write your mistakes down then work on that. Work on it piece by piece like Positioning then Targeting. I know the struggle bro I climbed from 2199 to 2790 i used dis to git gud. 
Play more
cheers, how would you recommend rewatching gameplay? 

And will rewatching my gameplay help me aim? 


How can I have mechanical aim like the pros?
Hey guys, I'm looking for someway to make my aim go above and beyond. What kind of practices would you recommend to make it like the pros. The pro dps players seems to lock on to players like aimbots its amazing.

I just don't't seem to get how they do that so well. Am I missing something or do I just need to keep practicing?Play more
Practice.
Bro. You are asking how can you play football as good as x professional player. Well, if you *dedicate* your life to playing, maybe you will develop a godly aim. Is it worth it? Not unless you really really want to become a pro player, an even then it's questionable.
Take [this advice](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SlCRfTmBSGs9) from Fatal1ty (one of the most famous pros in gaming ever).
While a majority of the playerbase has the potential to get into the higher ranks with the proper mentality and effort put into it, pros usually play at a level way above that, which can only be reached by years of practice and by being young enough.

Unless you're exceptionally talented or have great genetics, you'll simply never have the aim of a 16-20 year old guy who has been playing fps for the last 5-10 years if say, you're 25-30 now. That is, if you don't have the background yet, and aren't young enough, by the time you'd get the amount of practice that's needed, you'll be simply old enough that your performance degrades.

If you're 15-20, go play a lot, the world is yours!

A small note at the end, even if your condition would reasonably prevent you from from making it in the pro scene, there's no reason not to improve if you enjoy the game. The majority wouldn't ever do anything if this wasn't the case.
Ok so I would say I have a good aim, but it comes from playing over 1000h of quake and 500h of csgo, my main is Ana with over 350h.
So to answer your question play fps games a lot, and try to use the same sensitity over games(there are a lot of tools to calculate your cm/360° try to have the same in all games).
And don't try to practice aim against bots, it will only make you worse because they don't act like players.
Play a lot more. They've been playing FPS games for thousands of hours.
Git gud.
Lower sensitivity, practice tracking, profit.
Don't expect any quick solutions but 'just practice' is really not helpful advice...

You should always be trying to keep track of your strengths and weaknesses and put time into improving those weaknesses. If your aim on close range targets is bad, do something to practice bigger flicks (eg go stand close to some of the moving training bots in the practice range and try to track them properly). If you struggle to make the accurate micro movements that are needed to hit moving targets at long range, try to improve your micro hand control. You could do that by playing a different game with a relatively high sensitivity (I've done this with osu recently and it's helped quite a bit) or you could just set up long range tracking drills.

A few people including Sayaplayer use Aim Hero on steam to practice their aim and it seems to have generally decent reviews, it's not free but it's cheap so you can look into that to see if it will help you.

I guess the short answer is 'structured practice' but reading the comments in this thread could mislead someone into thinking that you can brainlessly play first person shooters for ten thousand hours and get pro level aim. As a former tf2 player who regularly played against pubbers with multiple thousands of hours who still had trash aim, I know that's most certainly not the case. You gotta keep pushing yourself if you want to get better at things, aiming is no exception.
if you arent born with it thousands of hours of practice.
At that level, you're born with it, and then improved over years of practice. The vast majority of OW pros played other FPS games for years before OW even existed.  Unless you're literally  born with a god tier natural talent, then OW will have run it's course before you have enough time to get that good.
it's genetics mainly + time. if you don't have the genetics no amount of time will get you to pro level. 

EDIT: i love how i am getting downvoted by people who think anybody can become pro at something simply by putting in time. If that were true every kid who wanted to be in the NBA would be there. Same goes for pro gaming. Wake up people
this.

Anyone else never experienced the "placed lower than my last season sr" issue?
A lot of people would say they get placed in an sr lower than what they were last season, but this isn't the case for me. Since season 1, my sr season high has been increasing everytime I get placed. I don't play competitive much, I only do placements (seaaon 4 and 5 were exceptions). I want to know if I'm just doing really good or people exaggerate over about being placed lower than their last season SR.

Season 1: placed at 60, current was 59.

Season 2: season high and current above 2600s.

 Season 3: placed 2796 sr     

During those seasons I played Reinhardt mostly.           

 Season 4: placed somewhat high 2800s, went on a rollercoaster to get to diamond, season high was 3055 sr decayed to 3000. Played mostly mercy.                    

 Season 5: won 7 out of 10 games, placed 3074, lost 5 games getting me to 2986, took a few weeks of break, played 1 one game which luckily got me a win, got to 3026 then decayed 3000. I kinda flexed? It was a mix healers, d.va and a little bit of roadhog/zarya.            

 Season 6: just finished my last few placements hours ago, I lost 7 games out of 10 and yet I got an sr of 3200s, pretty much popped my eyes out when I saw that. I flexed between playing tanks (mostly roadhog and d.va) and dps (I did really good as 76/junkrat, sadly i played them only when being stomped as a tank, so it was too late to win even if I was the only dps on fire during these games), only played healers in 2 games.

I want to know if I'm just doing pretty good, or people are exaggerating over the placement system. Or maybe it's just my luck. I also want to know if anyone actually gets placed higher every season.i got placed 3.1 last season was at 3k if that counts for anything
You're probably just getting better. For me on the other hand... S1: 51, S2: high gold, S3: mid gold... And this continued until today where I find myself in silver, trying my best but no clue how to climb even though my stats are decent. 
> I don't play competitive much, I only do placements (seaaon 4 and 5 were exceptions)

That is (probably) the reason why. Because you have a small amount of games, the matchmaker isn't sure yet where you belong. So if you do well in the games you play, it thinks you belong higher and so it places you higher each season.

Personally I placed a bit lower every new season than where I finished the season before.

S1: placed around 50, season high 61, ended 57.

S2: placed low Platinum, season high 3087, ended 2862.

S3: placed 2829, season high 3690, ended 3676.

S4: placed 3423, season high 3968, ended 3873.

S5: placed 3778, season high 3974, ended 3825.

S6: not placed yet.

Edit: but this season it's not rare to place higher than where you were before, if we can believe the multiple people reporting that.

Occasionally there were reports similar to yours but definitely not the norm.  Did you play a lot of qp and do well?  Could explain it.
I placed 2756 after ending last season at 2666 but this season is the only season that's happened to me in. I played really well in my placement matches and was on fire a lot of the time so that probably has to do with it.
i think swing of +/- 500 points after placements is fairly common, haven't heard anyone to fluctuate more than that. 
Don't you think it's kinda...too much? Don't get me wrong I feel proud that I jumped from a season high of 3074 to 3277 sr immediately but that's a 200 sr difference, I even lost 7 games too, I don't know, I always think the system considers the win and loss result over the performance. 
I barely play quick play anymore, played lots of mystery heroes but I've been getting stomped when enemy has 2 winstons and bastions while we get squishies so I stopped. I play custom games now and 3v3 for quick weekly rewards (where I play healer mostly to get it over with). Even then, I still did better with my 76 and junkrat than my instalock dps teammates in my comp matches, being on fire and stuff and actually getting kills.

It's not a little amount indeed, but I've read of a guy (top 500 player) that got an account that was hovering around 3000 for a couple of seasons. This season he did the placement matches on that account and it placed like 3.8K.

Many people said that your personal performance matters more during the placement matches than the actual outcome of the matches. This is just personal experience, but if you play very well (or very poorly) during the first few placement matches, it can match you against higher (or lower) ranked players to see how you perform against them and then base your placement on those matches. So even though you lost the majority of the placement matches, the matchmaker probably thought you did well enough to deserve a higher rank. But you'll only know if you deserve that rank if you keep playing competitive.

I need help with my aim
I have really good aim for my level, but also really low crit acc, what are some ways to hit more headshots? Also, I miss a lot of close rang McCree and soldier shots but do fine at midrange to long range, how do I  improve that?You could do conscious headshot practice in deathmatch or QP until it's natural to go for the head for you. As for the close range what sens do you use? Shooting people up close can be harder for people with lower sensitivities, but you don't want to change it and have it mess up your medium-long range accuracy just needs time and practice. 
Croasair placement, try to have your crossair at head level(where you think the enemies head will be) when peaking corners, this will make you have to move your mouse less if even at all to hit a headshot... 
Otherwise it's just practice
Put your cross hair to headshot height and aim with the left stick. Obviously only works if you're a console player.
I use 4/1600. I know that's a bit high, I used to play on 3/1600, and this has worked a bit better at all ranges. Should I go up more maybe?
I wouldn't change any higher personally. I play Tracer as my main DPS so I mostly play close range and use a lower sens. I think it just requires practice. You could also be getting nervous because you're aware of yourself lacking in closer ranges. 

Same as headshots just do some DM and really focus on landing your shots. It will get progressively easier for you and thus it'll become more second nature at all ranges. 

When I was practicing McCree a couple of seasons ago that's what I did is slow myself down at first and then as I got better I would naturally flick to targets faster and thus shoot faster but when I started I didn't fire as fast as I could I waited for my shot to line up. 
Thank you, I'll give it a shot.
Yup this, slow down and aim for accuracy, death match helped heaps esp for strafe +aiming which is essential
What's your sens/dpi for tracer? Mine is 3.7/1600, so you think it's too much?
It's only too high if it's not giving you results. I keep my sens/dpi the same across all heroes but typically adjust by what I'm mostly playing it's a little higher ATM because I'm playing support mostly right now. When I mained Tracer I used 800/3.4 but now I'm using 800/5.2(this sens still feels good on her for me though). 
I tried like lower sens like 2.5/1600 but my aim/cross hair was still shaky, could this be a sens problem or some other factor that I may not be aware of?
Maybe sens. I mean you could go to training field and strafing from left to right while keeping your crosshair on the bots head(without shooting) at various ranges. If you can keep it mostly on their head while moving back and forth your sens is probably pretty solid. 

Ana vs. Dive
Hello everyone. This is my first post on here. But I've been reading and following for a while now. Love the community. Anyways...

I really enjoy playing Ana. Her kit is extremely fun and she's definitely my favorite support to play. However, I don't play Ana in comp because when I get dived by the enemies I feel helpless. Unlike Zen where I stand a strong chance against my attackers. For that reason, I mainly just play her in quick play. 

Once someone commits to taking me out (gengi, tracer, etc.) I feel screwed. I usually panic and start spamming shots. These smaller quick characters are hard for me to land sleeps on. Obviously DVA and Winston are easy to sleep and for that reason I don't struggle with them. But with the quick flankers I just get owned. Is this normal? Or should I be better at fighting these type of characters if I don't have a teammate to help. Or should I not duel them and just try to move back into the middle of my team. 

Obviously, I know her damage was nerfed awhile back and that makes her way less capable of 1v1ing. I guess I'm really just trying to determine who I should be able to hold my own against? 

TL,DR

What matchups should I be able to handle on my own as Ana? (Ex. When I'm in back line and someone jumps me and teammates aren't helping). 
How to survive dive meta as Ana? You don't.

But it definitelly is okay to play her if she's in the right hands. You're on console. Well...you're pretty screwed.  Anyway my biggest tip would be to not spam shots and predict shots instead. Ana has a very slow fire rate. If you miss one shot you'll get punished for it. Thus, it's better to wait a split second before firing to make sure you're actually hitting them. 
6 hours in DM as Ana helped me more then any other practices I've ever had. It's like all you have to do while playing DM is to deal with genji/tracer/pharah/sombra/widow. Non-stop. I just wanted to have some fun and maybe train a bit, but I feel great now playing comp. I feel myself as flanker's nightmare. And I don't feel scared. First of all, I know what to do, I did it so many times. Second, it's just one flanker. C'mon, if I could survive 2 genjis + mccree in DM so many times, I'll be fine dealing with one genji. You can focus on sleep darting first. Just, you know, jump in DM and sleep dart everyone you see. Spray a pillow and run away. It's pretty fun btw. After you 'll get used to it - learn how to fight em. Tbh most of them act the same way - you won't waste nade on Tracer who didn't recall yet, or let genji sleep dart you. You'll know what they usually do and you 'll know how to win these mind games.
Good question hopefully you get a good answer. I feel as if I do better with Ana when zoomed in, but that's hard to do with a tracer in your face.
Usually when I miss a sleep dart on a genji or tracer I start bitching at my dps or tanks to come back and help me, or they will be losing heals because I'll be dead. Usually that gets their attention and they come back. I would also recommend staying in the back line, but not staying so far back that you can't get help when you need it. 
You don't. Just today i was playing against an Ana (as Winston) who was hitting every single sleep dart on me. I was really impressed. Still my team won and at the end of the game the other team was saying "report our ana" "didn't heal us once" in chat because she was so preoccupied with me. (On the bright side D Va nerf is coming and new Hog + buffed Reaper are making Winstons a little less common)
Hmm, between bio grenade and sleep dart Ana has great potential for survival when being dove, imo. Save sleep for big targets or last chance flick shots on the smaller targets. Hold grenade untill you take some damage to maximize value.

Honestly, if you are still dying or your team isn't helping you, you may be better off filling the support slot with something less meta. Another healer is an obvious choice, but pros have been known to put in things like torb, Sombra, soldier, even reaper and Mei. Roadhog is even looking like a good choice now. It's all map and team comp dependent, but worth thinking about in hopeless feeling situations. 
No, you DO survive dive. What you can do is to put a lot of effort into keeping track of your enemies behavior and position so you can act accordingly.

Be aware of your surroundings and position yourself where you think the safety-value ratio is best. For example if you saw an enemy flanker disappear from the fight then you are probably already thinking he is coming for you then you either prepare to take him on (most often I advice against it if you can't reliably hit a sleep on a Genji/Tracer) or you go right into your own team if you were far away. 

You draw flankers into far more unfavorable positions for them.
This is fantastic advice. 
Learn by doing, don't shy away from something you want to do but are afraid of the outcome (assuming that thing isn't illegal, etc lol). Play DM, and/or just play her in comp anyway. You can't improve without practice. =D

My duo queue partner is playing worse and worse. How can I help him?
Help! My duo queue partner is playing worse and worse.



Long post incoming

My friend and me, we play video games together for over 6 years, but overwatch is the first game we started playing competitively. I bought the game on release and I convinced my friend to buy it during the Christmas event. Since then we rarely played other games, only overwatch for hundreds of hours. Last season we managed to get a solid rank in platinum (~2700SR). Our placements in S6 have been 5w-5d, so we got placed in the same rank as before. Now whenever I play with my friend, i seem to lose every game. Out of 12 games, we only won 2. Out of my 5 games in solo queue, I won 4. So statistically speaking, he is holding me down and I want to know the reason for this drastic shift. His explanation is that we always get unlucky with teams, but I told him that the only consistencies in all those games are us. "But WE can't be that bad", he told me. I think maybe it has something to do with my changed-up hero pool.

This season I almost completely stopped playing support,  (I used to be an Ana main in S4, in S5 I played mostly tanks) and I try to play more DPS like Tracer (my strongest pick) and Sombra on specific maps.

My friend, on the other hand, used to play dps or Lucio almost every game. Now his dps performance is very inconsistent and instead of Lucio he plays Mercy now (with next to no success, poor positioning and ult usage).  When he plays tanks he tends to feed without getting value for his team. Overall he developed a lack in timing and positioning in general. Further more he doesn't make calls when playing support or tank, which is super counter productive.

I told him multiple times that there is no point in playing support, when you spend half of the game running back from spawn. Instead of mercy, you could be a soldier and be more effective.  

I don't really wanna tell him, that I'd like to play solo from now on, but it seems like I have to decide between gaining SR or playing with my friend. That's a miserable situation I am in and I really could use some advice. Did you ever have similar experiences with your duo queue?With those sample sizes you're not 'statistically speaking'.
Play something with high synergy with him

It will force him to work together with you and you can make the calls in a way that doesn't seem bossy since you are directly involved. 

Did it this season with dva + Winston with great success with my duo. 70% win rate.

Statistically speaking, I wouldn't come to any conclusion just yet.  Don't get tilted just yet.  If you like playing tracer and your friend likes mercy, make sure he understands you will be doing your own thing.  Let him focus on healing the rest of the team.  Also give synergy picks a try.  Anything that can benefit from blue beam is good.  Pharmercy at plat level will usually feel amazing.  Soldier or junkrat is good too.
Do you really speak "statistically" out of 12 and 5 games? Anything could have happened in such a small sample. Just tell him to record his games and you could record your own. Then you could analyse the VODs together and find mistakes, as you will have such too. It will help a lot.
You prefaced this post with "he's the problem..." Sounds like standard finger-pointing to me. Without some form of video to comment on, there is no way to know what is ACTUALLY happening vs your perception of what is happening.

Are you sure you're not stressing him out? If his performance is constantly decreasing, and responds with frequent excuses, that could just be impression management. There is a definite possibility YOU are making him defensive. Do some basic reading on how the stress response affects performance... Social pressures mess you up, man.

Focus on getting better YOURSELF - this will allow you to potentially carry him... or don't carry, and climb anyways; it sounds like this game is far more important to you than him. Nobody here is going to be able to tell you what you need to know to magically fix another human being, and goes far beyond the scope of this subreddit.

If it's important to you, ask him to do some basic reading on overwatch fundamentals, or offer to teach him youself.

Outside of that, the only thing you can change is yourself or the environment. Do you enjoy playing with your friend? If yes, shut up and enjoy spending time together. If no, consider a new partner.
If you really care about ranking up, you could get a second account where you solo queue on. You can still play with your friend on your main and enjoy playing competitively without feeling bad for losing sr.
12 games is not a good sample size.
Don't worry about SR and just play your best. Even if you have to carry him you are going to get better.

Just enjoy the game
> Out of 12 games, we only won 2.

No, you mean that out of 22 games, you only won 7. That's low for sure, but it's entirely possible that you guys got an unlucky streak.

Since the matchmaker tries to line up similarly-sized groups on each team, it's possible that it's not your *skills* that are the problem but rather your *coordination*. If the two man group on the other team is tightly coordinated but the two of you are not, then the other team will likely be more effective than you. 
Also, gaining SR is largely pointless compared to having fun with friends. 
Keep in mind sample size. Anything less than 100 is truly insignificant. Even 100 is mostly insignificant. Anyway what you are doing is mistaking correlation with causation. Why do you lose more games with him? Is it purely just you getting bad luck in the coin flip of competitive. Or is it that your friend is making massive misplays. Or is it you? I play with a friend who smurfs with me quite frequently and I find that I lose more. It's not my friends fault it is me. I play more risky because I know someone has my back if I am caught out. All in all I have to say play more. It may be that they are holding you back but nothing really indicates this. Look for why.
12 games isn't that many. It took me 19 to climb from 2915 (placement) to diamond. 
You're jumping to conclusions. That sample size is way too low to confirm that your teammate is playing badly, although I can guarantee you that if you keep calling them out they will start to do so. Focus on your game.
One other suggestion, in case you can afford it....buy another copy of OW and let it be your "fun" account. That way, it won't bother you at all.  
When playing with a regular partner, you have the benefit of learning how they play and being able to synergize with him.  When you guys changed up your hero pools, you not only lowered your own personal performances(by playing characters you have less experience with), but you also reset the synergy that you had developed.  Now you guys can't really predict each other anymore, because your play styles have changed.

The only way to fix this is to continue playing with each other as you are now.  You'll get better at the heros you added to your pools, and you'll re-learn how your partner thinks.  Your SR will go down during this process, but that's normal.  It will rise back up once you start winning again.  If you want to avoid that initial SR drop, you can play on a secondary account.  Secondary accounts also let you avoid "ladder anxiety".

In my opinion, friendship and enjoyment are more important than your SR.  If you enjoy playing with him, then keep playing with him!
Record the game play of both, try to give each other pointers and discuss it. Try sending it to someone to review and have fun.

Remember that overwatch is just a game to play with a friend. I would dump the game if it costs me a dear friend. Instead of pointing figers on him why u dont help him? 
You have to ask your self, do you care more about your sr or your long time friend?
I'm suprised that nobody told you this already.

TELL HIM TO TAKE A BREAK.

As a Mccree and Tracer main, if I find myself playing just too much I end up being burned up and my perfomance just drops massively.

From what I understood from the post, I take that you only play Overwatch, and that's pretty bad. Try other games together 
I've run into this problem playing with friends before. I've always been able to perform on DPS but when I play with friends I play either support or tank because I know I can play those roles better than they can. I would suggest you to play tank/support when playing with him and just let him dps. Then play dps when you play on your own. The only time I would deviate from this is if your team is severely lacking in dps. Then fuck it, both of you can dps or ask him to go Lucio. 
As others have said, play heroes with high synergy.
I have a lot of success with my duo partner doing this; I play Zarya and he plays Tracer/Reaper. The ult combo potential is amazing, plus I can save him from flashbangs, hooks, and other stuns. 

A few other good duos that we have done; Ana/Soldier (Nanovisor), Pharah/Mercy (obvious duo), and Zarya/Rein (amazing tank synergy).
Experiment play heroes that require teamwork for example tracer/genji and focus same targets or winston / dva or even genji with zen and leave healing on him or tracer / zen.
Also Zarys / Rein or both supports and make lucio be personal guard by protecting you
It sounds like you are playing characters that like to flank and are likely not as close to the team as you were when previously playing support characters.  
 
Now your friend is playing a character that typically has to stay in the back line, when he used to play characters that were typically upfront or closer to the action.  
 
It sounds like you are aware of this to some degree, but you would be surprised how artifacts of former playstyles carry on to different roles.  
 
One of the things that I've found helpful is completely playing for other teammates rather than myself.  I know this sounds kinda "duh," but what I mean is I will consciously focus on becoming someone's body guard instead of going out and proactively killing someone on my own.  I let the enemy come to me rather than me going to it.  Sounds like this could be helpful in your case.  I imagine your friend overextends, so chances are the enemy will go to him.  If you clean up/protect as a DPS, that will open other opportunities for your team.   
seems like he's playing like he's having an ana always having his back, he just needs to adopt to your teams healers not having him as much in a focus as you probably did
Ask him to practice zarya. Honestly if you have someone you can play with and have been playing it is definitely better than attempting solo q. Believe me, if I had a duo partner like that who played  with me I would be pretty happy as it would reduce the chances of getting a torb on eichenwalde attack.
Those are variables you cannot influence whereas your friend, you can teach or givevtios to improve.

Ask him to practice zarya she is scary in this junk rat meta. And you can have combos with her which guarantees team wipes. 
In season 5 I fought my way from 1500 to 2500 in SoloQ [The last 200 with a 2 other very friendly people :-)].
After palycement matches I placed there and this season I experience way more toxicity less willingly Tank and support players. I try to fill in but I often need to play Heroes I´not on such a high skill Level. Since s6 began i dropped 450 SR and probably fall into Silver again.
I can´t speak for the majority but I think S6 is atleast different in some way.

> Since then we rarely played other games, only overwatch for hundreds of hours.

Take a break. You both might be burning out without realizing it or getting some fatigue. I had this problem myself and after a break went from mid diamond to mid masters in a short amount of time. If you're worried about your aim being ruined by another shooter, play a top-down RPG, Rocket League, something else that isn't first-person. You don't have to stop playing for a month, but a day or two will do wonders.
I would play quickplay with him for a while and maybe discuss changing roles.  If he isn't mechanically skilled enough and his game sense isn't there yet maybe you can help improve it.  This works better if you have more people in a stack and can have them fill support so he could try tank or something.

I usually queued comp support/tank/flex or support/tank/dps.  

What is your friend's hero pool like?  What is your hero pool like? You should play your best heroes in comp.  Something that will win team fights and have synergy.
You mean that out of 5 games, you win 4 playing alone? If that's the case and you can maintain an impressive 80% winrate play alone for a few games and don't worry about losing any rank, as you can regain it extremely easily. Or maybe you just got lucky for a few games and that's all.

I usually play with friends that are around 2400 sr. While playing with them I lose a lot more sr than I win, so it drags my rank down and I hover around 2750+-50. Seasons 2,3 and 4 none of them played so I played exclusively soloQ, and I always got to around 3.2k sr. But you know what? I don't give a fuck that I'm 500 sr below my "true" rank, whatever that means, because I like playing with them.

SR is just a made up number stored in some server fuck knows where, while your duo buddy is a person, and most importantly, your friend. Are you really so worried that he is "holding your sr from being *slightly* above average"? Enjoy the game dude. There is nothing wrong with you wanting your friend to improve, but don't overdo it.
He has learned bad habits through bad practice, if he wants to improve and he can take being criticized you should be honest and tell him what you think and what he should improve. If he can't take being criticzed then play something where you can work together to the point where he can follow you while you are calling the shots and then he can learn what is a good strategy that way instead. Recording gameplay and looking over it is also a pretty good way of learning  and seeing mistakes you make because you are not in the heat of battle.
That's happened to me. I just jump right into solo when I hop on after warming up. If I get a private message I just tell em' I don't have much time only for this game, or "not much time gotta bail soon" 

They usually don't catch on after that. 

I hit masters last season while my friend sunk down to 2400  
17 games isn't anything statiscally speaking. Try a 1000
Ask him if he's open to advice and give me his in-game name.
Try to gain SR, sure. But if he's dropping, stay with him.

If my mate started dropping, I would throw games to stay with him.
Seriously. There is such thing as a slump, too. I'd advise taking a small break from the game. Taking a week off after playing pretty consistently each day helped me break out of a slump where everything seemed to be going wrong and in reality I was just overthinking the game. It's easy to get into competitive and stop having fun because winning feels so important, but sometimes having fun and not stressing over the game will allow you to think more clearly and play better. Taking a small break can help you come back with a fresh perspective. 
We played much ana/soldier back when DVA wasn't in every game. Any other synergies apart from pharah mercy?
Make vods and watch it together. Find your way to deal with "new meta". Or take a small break - it works for us. When it doesn't go right we spend weekend in sc2 and come back refreshed.
Dva Winston is fantastic in duo queue, but also consider others. You're taking two tank roles and you might get a few tank mains. 
Pharmercy all up in that bitch ez
Agreed. Have had god-like runs and sickening losing streaks reguardless of teammates. It evens out in the long run but 12/5 game sample sizes are far too small
Exactly this, you need to make a choice, either you play with him because hey it's your dude after all, he matters more than some virtual ranking against people you will never meet. Or you are committed to climb the ladder then get a second account where you will enjoy your solo climb.

Don't lose a friend for virtual points. 
Yeah, but for fun they'd be on qp, they're on comp to win
Was it worth it?
????????????? Uhh
Anything that can hold a high ground and offer Mercy a quick escape from the battle really. Tracer and Sombra are both quite poor to combo with Mercy since they'll never offer her a safe place and your friend is likely to find you to be the best dd on the team, making poor decisions trying to keep you alive.

So pharah, mccree, widow, hanzo, all the tanks really, soldier. Especially if the rest of the team pick melee heavy. Playing a mercy with a team that is all up front is very challenging, so help him ease in to it :) 
If tracer is your strongest pick then you should ask your friend about learning zarya. The pulse bomb combo is nothing to scoff at and now that mobile heroes can't get out of grav it's much easier to get team wipes with it. You should also find his strongest pick and get experience with a hero that synergizes well with that. 
1 tank 1 support: Rein, Ana. Winston, Zen. Hog, Zen. Hog, Mercy. 

1 Tank 1 Dps: Zarya, Tracer. Zarya, Genji. Zarya, Doomfist. Zarya, Junkrat. Hog, Reaper. Hog, Junkrat. Winston, Tracer. Winston, Genji. Rein, McCree. Rein, Bastion. Orisa, Bastion. Orisa, Torbjorn. Orisa, Junkrat.

1 dps 1 support: Mercy, Pharrah. Lucio, Reaper. Zen, Genji. Zen, Tracer. Ana, Soldier. Ana, Genji. Ana, Bastion.

There are more decent combinations than this but this is a start.


If you or your friend can learn Winston/Zen that's a pretty solid duo queue synergy. I have lots of luck with that. Granted I'm a tank main 
Winston and Tracer have incredible synergy if he can play tank. The ability to dive the same healer together and burst them down is invaluable. 
* Doomfist/Zarya
* Genji/Zen
* Genji/Zarya
* Torb/Orisa
* Widow/Mercy
* Reaper/Lucio
* Winston/Ana
* Rein/Bastion
* Bastion/Ana
* Bastion/Mercy
* Any DPS/Zen
* Any ranged DPS/Rein
* Flanker/Dva or Winston
* McCree/Mercy or Zen
* Hog/Any support
* Lucio/Any support
Me and my friend always go Zarya and Rein, combining your ults is a lot better than Most would expect
Genji/tracer dva/Winston 
I had a ton of success with my buddy as Winston and me as zen. Harmony on Winston and discord on who he dives. I don't like calling discords or forget as I'm too focused on my play. So I would have him tell me who he was jumping on and just discord that target. 

Gave us initiation, defensive ult, zoning ult, shields, dps, 

As long as we had one other support, rest of comp didn't really matter. But most teams after seeing Winston Zenyatta would generally pick dva/Zarya and hitscan of some kind. 

Went like 15-3 over the course of 3 sessions before season 5 ended. 
I definitely agree with the "synergy strategy."  Finding synergies is defining your role relative to another specific player(s).  So as Mercy, I would ask myself, "What am I going to do with my teammates?"

For main tanks without self-heal (Rein, Winston, Orisa), I would spend a lot of time healing them so they could play a bit more aggressively than their inherent shielding would otherwise support.

For slow DPS that does not do a lot of flanking or kill-confirmation (Soldier, McCree, Junkrat, Zen), I would be damage-boosting them so they can turn damage into kills.

For snipers and builders, I would be using them as "anchor-points" to escape or move around the fight quickly.

Unfortunately, there isn't much synergy between Mercy and flank/kill-confirmation DPS like Tracer and Sombra, which may be part of the problem you're having.  They're just too high mobility, too low health, and too far out of position to be constantly useful to Mercy.  Instead, Zen or Lucio would be better supports to synergize with these kinds of DPS.
Winston+Genji or Tracer since you mentioned you like Tracer.

Mercy pairs very well with McCree, Widow, Pharah (obviously) and S76.

Lucio is a good choice in many team comps but it's usually more on the Lucio to play with his team, not the other way around. If he's being too aggressive on Lucio playing Dva or Winston and treating him like a diving Genji or Tracer also works somewhat well, just go in and support him. Sometimes helping a teammate with a play that should be dumb will work out if it's not just them alone.

As for his problems with DPS, the best way to get DPS to perform better is to give them all kinds of space. In other words, have a great tank. A good Reinhardt for example makes Soldier, McCree, and Reaper's jobs infinitely easier. Having the better Reinhardt is almost an insta-win if everything else is pretty close. A great Winston is annoying, he's distracting, he breaks the enemy up and makes them turn around.

Kinda just throwing out all kinds of suggestions here since I'm not too sure on your friends hero pool
Rein + Zarys, Rein + Ana, Tracer + Zen, Genji + Zen, Winston + Zen, Reaper + Zarya, Tracer + Zarya, Reaper + Zarya, Lucio + Reaper.  Those are all the different combos my duo partner and I run.
And then a zenyatta orbs you and you die. You need protection.
If his friend is as serious about climbing as he is, then there is no need to lie. I tell my group straight up when I don't want to play with them. There's time for fun, but then there's time for serious gaming. If anything, his friend is in the way of him enjoying the game to the fullest.
Gr8 post
Ok, then gaining SR is largely pointless compared to gaining slightly less SR while having fun with friends.

Point is, recreation is more meaningful if you have someone to share it with.

(Also, I have fun on comp, I hope you do too!)
> Yeah, but for fun they'd be on qp

There is nothing fun about qp. It is a cesspool.
In my case it was because he was pretty toxic. TONS of fun at first, but if we started losing it got REALLY bad. 


Can confirm. Winston main who was a former mercy main, I've made half a dozen friends with other mercies just by flying them to safety and providing angel target when they respawn  
Also make sure he is not focusing on just you. A lot of times when I match up with a pair and one is mercy, the mercy never seems to be healing the rest of the team, only the friend. 
If his friend plays Lucio and Mercy no way is he going to be a good Zarya. They should just try Reaper/Lucio, it's a secret god-tier combo for a lot of maps that nobody talks about.  
Also sombra and hog,my friend and I do this and we destroy, sombra distracts them hog hooks them in and finishes them off
Zarya + Rein is a great duo because you can both benefit from each other, support each others aggressive plays thus creating space and farming ults faster.

But never combo shatter + grav, NEVER... Both ults are teamfight winning by themselves as long as tgere is follow up. Sure with no follow up they won't work but another ult that also requires follow up is not a good follow up.
I agree with Rein and Zarya as well. My buddy and I went 6-0 last time we played together. We didn't always do rein and zarya but everytime we were losing we switched to them and just dominated. 

One match it was 3-3 in overtime. Enemy team had 4min and we had 1. We only pushed the cart like 30meters in our 1min overtime then held them for the entire 4min at the first choke. Relentless gravs and earthshatters. They just couldn't get it together lol
> If anything, his friend is in the way of him enjoying the game to the fullest. ^1 ^2 ^3

^1 According to OP. 
^2 Based on a 12 game sample size. 
^3 With no data or video to back it up. 
Clearly his friend and op have a different approach to the game. Though this does not mean the game is not enjoyed at its fullest since it is game the main goal is to enjoy it. There is not one good way to do so.
I believe he has to decide for himself what to do because climbing the ladder by being hardcore may not be compatible with enjoying sweet comp games with friends.
When I play with lower ranks friends I just don't watch my SR because I am confident I will climb anyway. Therefore I don't need an alt account but OP may feel it is too hard to climb and lose with his friend. To enjoy the two aspects of the game, he probably has to get 2 games.
Just my 2 cents
I made my point really bad, of course you should have fun playing comp I just meant it's not really a messing around mode and no one's having fun when your friend isn't doing great and it's awkward to mention that the team is doing worse because of them
Fair point, reaper/Lucio combo has wrecked my team more than I'd like to admit (Pharah player here). However, playing mercy helps with the instinct to protect the team, and zarya does that in a similar way, just not healing. Personally zarya is a hero that I think everyone needs to learn in this game, she's just too good and combos great with tons of heroes.
what's so great about Reaper and Lucy? is the playstyle about speeding Reaper in and out? booping people into him? or just stacking the passive heals?
Yeah it sucks when me and my buddy literally go," fucking wail them" at the same time and press q literally at the same time without thinking haha. We both see the same opening and think NOW. (im talking withing 0.01 of a secomd)
Well, if you get a grav with a lot of people, you can shatter them all, then firestrike the entire team for a ton of damage, and just swing with your hammer, in case you want to save any DPS ults for later
I'm just saying that she's high skill, requires pretty strict tracking and a good amount of practice getting a feel for her rightclick drop to reliably land them at midrange, and the gamesense required is at the very least at the level of Mercy, possibly higher. If he were just to start playing Zarya in comp instead of a support I imagine the SR would drop even lower because a bad Zarya can feed pretty hard and will likely struggle to get even two gravs in the average round if their aim is poor.  
All of the above, but mostly speed boost. It's killer on koth maps. 
Without concerted efforts by the enemy team to lock down Reaper and Lucio getting him in the fray quickly he can easily run away with games.
Yeah I've had that happen aswell. You should decide who is going to ult before a fight, it prevents ult stacking.
Yeah but shatter doesn't do much damage, instead you could not waste a teamfight winning ult and get in an another hammer swing dealing a bungh of dmg
Well yeah, but that comes with playing a new hero in general. I'm willing to bet a McCree one trick would drop if he tried to pickup soldier without any practice. I'm not saying pick Zarya straight away in comp, I'm saying get practice with the hero before you head into comp. 
Way overthinking. This is 2700 ELO - you don't need god mechanics to learn a new character
Yes! It's not intuitive for everyone, but having the conversation BEFORE the fight starts "I'm going to ult first this next fight" goes a long way. I've found that the player who's more trigger happy with their ult is better served being the first, otherwise they may get impatient and jump the order if they become anxious.
Yeah every time it happens I kick myself and he does too, just get wrapped up in the moment, see that one perfect opening but yeah we need to get into the habit of deciding who should ult first
Definitely this. Having a plan when the fight starts is an enormous help, especially with Zarya.
It's rarely teamfight winning tho, at least not in my high-plat/low-diamond tier.
Soldier and McCree are both aim-based classes, there's a lot more carryover between them. The difference between Mercy and Zarya is like telling a Rein main to "flex" to Widow. It's an entirely different skillset, it's like the difference between changing your accent and learning a whole new language.
Don't underestimate plat dude, it's chock full of competent onetricks.
Then it sounds like you are lacking the follow up damage. I'm in the same tier and it is really important to make sure your team knows you are going to shatter and are ready to follow up.

Also make sure to call out wich shattered targets to focus and make sure your teammates are not getting distracted by other things.

Being vocal usually helps a lot, and even if your shatters aren't teamfight winning, shattering a grav is still a waste...
Fair point, though I feel Zarya and mercy have similar skill sets than rein and widow. However my point being that they shouldn't just jump into comp with no experience on the hero, and play them in quickplay/arcade first 
They're either missing basic positioning or basic aim. Competence starts in diamond and is standard in masters. 
Well... being in the same tier you should know that being vocal doesn't always help. I often call out, but in my opinion its more about yourself checking your teammates ults, seeing which people are in the fight and not, and making it as easy as possible for your teammates to follow up your ult without having to have a super thought out strategy, and instead just doing it
I see where you're coming from in terms of the general mindset of looking around, being aware of your team and flankers, etc. That would definitely be a jumpstart in terms of playing Zarya. However the issue is that there's still an execution barrier that Mercy doesn't train at all, Zarya is fairly demanding in terms of aim in both the hitscan and projectile disciplines.

It's for this reason that I definitely agree with your sentiment about how most players should have a pocket Zarya. The twist on it for me though is that my main reason for this is that she can help projectile players train hitscan tracking and hitscan players train projectile prediction/aim compensation. It's a bigger entry barrier for a support-focused player.

But yeah, quickplay training is a must. The thing is though that because of the lack of skill overlap it would take a lot more acclimation to fully pick up, plus from the given info this guy seems like a casual so I just don't know if it's feasible to assume he'll put in the required time to actually get good if he's already struggling to get out of plat as Mercy, widely renowned as one of the most carryable heroes.
Yeah, some fights are lost and some teams don't wotk even if you call them out, but calling your ult and when you are going to use it is still better than not calling the ult out.

And even if every shatted doesn't result into a won fight it still doesn't justify wasting it into a grav.

What do to about friends getting boosted?
I've recently had a friend take the path of having their account boosted into higher ranks then they play at normally. I know this is a semi-regular thing with in the community but there's a couple of things I'm having issues with the whole situation

1. The boosting has been done by a fmr top 500 player who was in top 50 for several seasons

2. One of these people have been only had the interest in getting a golden weapon for their main hero of play.

3. They have no intent on trying to play at these ranks but have only done this for the weapon.

The major debate I've had inside and with our other friends about this is in-regards to players they faced against. These placements were done on a silver account (that was then placed to plat, played into dia)

These people playing against basically had a loss tied up in the first place. All for this ones persons golden weapon. It's really irking our friend group and we don't know what to say to our friends about this. They think we're attacking her but we want to tell her what we see as a harmful thing for other players.

Cheers It is shitty, but its weird that you care so much about this to make it an issue between you and your friend(s). Let it go.
1. Respectfully explain exactly why getting her account boosted damages overwatch.

2. Tell her it's alright that she did it this one time. Odds are she had no intent of causing trouble for so many people. The goal is to avoid making her feel guilty and get defensive. Note: If she did intend to cause all that harm, then why are you friends?

3. Then politely ask that she doesn't do it again.

4. As for the rest of the friend group, just let them know that she made a mistake, she is human after all. Then just let her video game numbers slowly decline. 
It's super shitty, and also against Blizzard's rules I think, but those people who lost to that booster probably forgot about it by the time they queued into their next game or when they went to bed that day - still sucks for them though, especially those who had bad matches before it

If the user paid to be boosted, I think that's a huge waste because if they want to play Comp legitimately, they're just gonna immediately drop. (Don't tell me a Silver Mercy or Lucio can hold their own at Diamond or Master because they can't)

I also think golden weapons don't really have that much value any more - even in QP, you can regularly see 2-4 each match. Many players have, like, 5 of them at this point 
In wow there was a case where a pro wasn't allowed to play on a tournament because he boosted some1. I hope blizzard does the same with overwatch. If he is a famous top 50 player he probably plays for a team. So yeah, the problem could easily be solved by blizzard. 
There's nothing you can do about it. It's already happened.

Just let her gradually drop down in rank over time.
I mean it's a stupid thing to fall out over but I don't think op is saying they are no longer friends because of it, I think he's asking advice as to how to encourage the players not to get boosted without coming off as a tosser.

Anyone ever feel like they don't "deserve" the rank they are in because of the heroes they play?
I am a flex player in Masters. Like I literally play every role, but the very most playtime are on tanks, because they rarely get instalocked and playing tank also carried me to Master.

Now don't get me wrong, I think that I am a really good tank (for a Master at least), but sometimes I feel like I should be able to be "really good" in more, like having good aim and great mechanical skill, to deserve being a true "Master".

I would actually love to main Sombra, but I had horrible placements (trolls and such), so I have horrible win rates this season so far on dps heroes and now I am afraid to instapick them.

Idk maybe I am just silly, but I guess I'd love to be able to hold my own in Masters playing dps and Ana to feel like I am truly a Master.This post is a little confusing to me but I'll try my best. I'm a grandmaster tank/ support main.  I used to feel this way when I was in master, but I found that was because overwatch's roles each have different skillsets that don't necessarily transfer (i.e. aiming is most important for dps, while positioning, teamwork, foresight more important for tanks, etc). So, that means you may be a master level tank and that's what let you climb up to master, but you might not be a master level dps (no offense to your skill, it may just be because you don't get to play it as often). Flex players don't always play every role to the same skill level, and that's a very natural thing. 

Mains are a label that people put on themselves. So based on what you wrote, my advice for you to improve further would be to not be so focused on the label of being a flex player and try to improve on what you're already good at (maybe tanking?). Hint: working on better ult usage and economy, and always thinking about positioning is what let me climb to grandmaster, at least personally

Once I hit grandmaster, I started learning how to play other roles well on an alt account (currently learning dps on a diamond alt account). I decided to do this because I had a similar thought process to you about deserving your rank: playing with friends, I couldn't hard carry as dps even though I was "such high rank". 

Feeling like you deserve your rank is something that comes with time. Last season, I climbed into master and dropped back out over 20 times , but each time I climbed back up, I became a better player. So just play more games, try to improve, and don't forget to have fun! Hope this helped.
I can relate to this. Originally when I was having this issue I was searching very hard for tips, and for someone to give me something, but I had to figure it out myself. You just have to keep playing. I started out expanding the supports I play and then I moved to tank and dps (as a former mercy otp). I only play the characters I am comfortable with and I really understand. I knew I could make an impact as pharah and dva, and I do. You need to train your sombra and learn what to do and you need to get out of the tank mindset and into the sombra mindset. It just takes time. If you fail miserably at the beginning, that's perfectly fine. You will get better fast. Also, play with friends it's so helpful to have support and synergy. 
i went through this a few seasons ago and bought an alt to practice the heroes i wasnt comfortable on. it worked, would recommend.

edit: if you're poor then just play whatever you want to practice on your main. you'll derank originally but after a month or two you'll probably be back to the rank you were at, except as a more rounded player
Aiming is not the only skill in this game. Gamesense is a skill. Positioning is a skill. Callouts are a skill. Ability management is a skill. 

There seems to be an undercurrent of this idea that only mechanical skill is true skill. This is absolutely not true. That's not even true in CS:GO. You are masters because you are skilled at the game. Are you skilled at aiming? Maybe not, I've never met you to know.

What to keep in mind is that if you don't have practice with DPS at a masters level, you're obviously not going to be a masters level DPS. Likewise, if a masters level DPS doesn't have practice tanking, he's not going to be a masters level tank. Each role has different skills that need to be fine tuned and honed. Some have more overlap than others, obviously, but the only way to be good at something is to practice it.

FYI, Sombra is a very hard character to play, and it's not because she's mechanically difficult. The gamesense and ability management required to play her well is extremely high, and it's fairly unique to her playstyle. So if you want to play Sombra, practice her a lot. :)
I feel like I can climb but i deserve my rank cuz I'd rather play who I want 
I'm a GM Lucio main, and sometimes I feel as though I don't deserve my rank because of playing the "healbot", but I can flex to all other supps/tanks and a couple dps too and play comfortably at my ELO. Generally if you climb to a rank playing 1 or 2 heroes, even if it's one that doesn't require aim (like Lucio) the positioning and gamesense will be on par and as long as you know your job, you will most likely perform fine :)
I play Ana and feel like im doing well but cant get out of Plat since Season 4. 😢
Do you feel you play to win or play characters you have fun with?
There's more to this game than aim and mechanical skill. I'm a tank main and I 100% believe I deserve my rank. Good tank play is so under appreciated in this game (support play too, but to a lesser extent in this tank main's opinion) and there is a huge difference between a gold Reinhardt and a diamond Reinhardt, masters Reinhart, and GM Reinhardt.
Personally, I got (in my humble opinion) really good with Sombra, and that was largely what got me into/kept me in Masters, climbing all the way from mid-plat (I'd used Pharah mostly to climb to there from the literal bottom of gold). I'm also a pretty good Mercy (no laughter, please) and a pretty capable Zarya or Orisa. I always tried to pick Sombra when it was a valid pick, but pretty frequently I'd have to change to stop a team from tilting or to go support because my teams would inexplicably decide to go with Solo Healer Sombra - I've unsubscribed from YourOverwatch over the amount of grief the "Sombra's a SUPPORT!?!?" video has caused me in the hero select screen - and I'd play a lot of Mercy. I always felt like I wasn't really having to work as hard as I would in another role and that I didn't deserve to stay in Masters when I got stuck with her for a few games in a row, and while I don't mind playing Ana or Zen I can't reliably contribute as much with them so I stick with my strongest healer. I'm not one of *those* Mercys who lets their whole team die just for the five man rez, I'm always tempo rezzing and flying around to try to hit everyone with heals, but it definitely does feel like I haven't earned my place when I'm playing as her. 

Meanwhile, when I'm playing as Sombra, I know I've earned it because I've managed to climb despite all the people who've thrown based on my pick for the last few seasons and that she's a challenging hero to be reliably effective with, and I'm good at working with my team to use her properly. OP, if you'd like any tips on Sombra I'd be happy to help you out, send me a message if you'd like :)
i don't play junkrat or mercy
I'm not as high as you but I'd say one should be able to play all heroes at a max of two levels below their sr. Not as an end all be all rule but as a general guideline for how good most players are. 

You're in masters, I'm guessing you could totally play all heroes at a plat level. Am I right? That's pretty badass. You can play EVERY hero at a better than average level compared to the community, then tank?!?! You're a monster at tanks! Oh i'm sorry, *master at tanks ;)
First off, unless someone boosted you, you deserve your rank, period. I repeat, you deserve your rank.

But, I think I can explain part of the reason you are feeling this, and even why it is a partially legitimate feeling.

Every patch release brings changes in what heroes and play style are effective. These changes can be quite drastic when a hero gets a radical rework, a major buff, or a powerful new character is released.

Some of your anxiety may be related to the idea that your current heroes and play style may become less effective or drop out of the meta altogether. DVa is going to become more aim dependent, Mercy's play style will change radically, etc. What if the the most effective comps start to depended on a solo healing Ana again, will your available hero pool drop considerably?

Most of the heroes are dependent on aim to be effective. Some aim dependent heroes will always be in meta. At some level you know that the easiest way to stay in masters is to have master level aim.

As others have said, the easiest way to correct this is to think of it as a skill you are consciously working on, worry less about rank and more about improving. The first step is probably figuring out what kind of equipment or environment changes you could use, and what a good practice routine would be. But you can also do things like play FFA death match, 3v3 lockout, mystery heroes to work on carrying practiced skills into "real life" without just taking them straight into a comp game.
I went 3/7 in placements and got placed 3600sr

I didnt play ranked last season. But im just an assault/ tank
As long as it's not mercy you probably deserve your rank 
Thank you very much, that was pretty good advice. I thought about buying another account for dps practice only a couple times, but right now I am just a poor University student and 40€ are like a week of food haha

I really stress myself at getting better at everything, and get frustrated at myself a lot when I make dumb decisions. That being said, Overwatch is my very first competitive game and I actually bought my first gaming PC last December. I have never played  PC ever in my life before that (except Age of Empires on my Mom's PC 10 years ago) and maybe it is too late now to become a high tier dps player, but who knows, I guess I just have to play. 
i think positioning is still most important for dps, you can hit 100% of your shots, but when you're out of position getting into 5v1 all the time that doesn't help you anything
Happy that you made the decision to expand your hero pool, that's always something that will make you generally better in comp and I hope you succeed playing other heroes just as much.

I would like to play with my friends, but they don't play it anymore. They just got too tilted and stuck at their rank, I am the only one of them (unfortunately) that reached Masters a while back in solo q. 

But well I guess I just have to play then and hope I don't drop out of Master.
I think I'm gonna do that, thanks!
I think I am just going to pick other heroes, regardless if I drop out of Master for a bit (though I don't think this is necessarily going to happen). I know I can make an impact with other heroes aswell, but I rarely give myself the chance to prove it. Definitely got some new motivation going into comp later, thank you.
Good to have some insight from way higher skilled players than me, thanks!
A little bit of both.
Dude, you really don't have to defend yourself for playing Mercy, just saying.

Anyway, I'm at work right now, but when I get home I'll be sure to shoot you a message! :)
You're definitely right. I wasn't being very specific there, but of course positioning is important no matter who you're playing. Thanks for pointing that out
You can also make more friends, I make new ones just by clicking the button at the end or if they said something funny and were good I add them. And believe in yourself dude, I bet you can hold at least diamond with your gamesens and dropping out of masters seems like it would suck but it doesn't. The fact that I'm in diamond still was amazing to me because I expected to drop to gold. 
Anytime!
I've found I usually make friends when I'm queuing with others anyway. It definitely takes the edge off the new person trying to group with us if there are multiple people to interact with. We can usually get a few to jump on board if we roll, but it's worth noting the next game probably won't go as hot.

I'd recommend just playing positive with at least a duo. Join team voice and have fun. I've played with a few dozen and there are five that I might play with regularly if they're on.

Playing with the new people in a group is good too, because I've seen people get tilted off of nonsense and we had to drop the group and regroup to get rid of them. Adding and being added can go bad, but if you're positive it should largely go well.
That was really nice, thank you. :)

What To Do as a Winston Main Against Hog + Reaper?
So I started playing early season 5 and have pretty much played Winston all the time, every game. I climbed from 1500 SR to 3000 SR and didn't have to worry about (or learn any other characters). Eventually, the reaper buff came and there was a good counter to Winston. Now even when the enemy team had a Reaper I could still be effective (not as much obviously) just by always keeping track of where he was. Now along comes this Roadhog buff and people start using him too. Well today, I dropped 100 SR in a span of 5 games and 3 of my 4 losses were because the other team had both hog and reaper (other was a throw rip). This was the first time my teammates have actually blamed my character pick and told me to switch since I started playing Winston. And actually I felt like I probably needed to as well. Is there any way you guys have been getting around Hog and Reaper with Winston? Or is it just a situation that you need to switch off in?If enemy team has both of them i would probably swap. As a general rule of thumb if enemy team has 2+ counters and you feel effectively countered, then you swap. I generally swap to zarya/dva against a reaper/hog to peel more for teammates 
Dude, I've found it hard to play tank PERIOD into the new Reaper/Rein/Junkrat meta. No tank (besides Orisa, who was barely in the game when this happened) has received a substantive buff since Roadhog was initially nerfed. 

Since then, Roadhog, Reaper, and Junkrat have seen SUBSTANTIAL buffs, all the while leaving all other tanks the exact same. Quite frankly, I'm overwhelmed right now on all tanks. I don't know what you do because you have fewer shields/barriers, so you're taking more damage, and they've got more ult charge. I feel like I'm just a battery charging the enemy DPS ults, which gets my healers killed, which loses games.

If I had sole control of the meta right now, I'd think you probably want to avoid any tank not named Roadhog. But you'll get flamed for not going 2-2-2, even if you think it gives you a better chance to win. 
Reaper and hog both counter Winston, so if you cannot do anything about it, swap. But otherwise, watch were they are and make sure you aren't close enough that the can kill you before you leap away.
Nothing. Just die
1 counter to your hero is okay I think 2 is a pretty big deal. Because monkey isn't good against armor which the main tank probably has, so he's only going to be good against half their team. Unless you're playing with a Dva and you're playing defensively but at that point you're still probably better off as Rein. 

Rein+Zarya/Dva are pretty good against them. Or a hog of your own in the off tank slot especially if they don't have a Rein. 
take it boi
That's one of the reasons why you want to have a diverse hero pool if you want to climb higher. OW is a game where you have to adapt to a specific situation, so sometimes you just have to switch heroes. Don't blame the meta or get discouraged...see it as a reason to improve. :)  
You will want to switch, you will get shredded to pieces sadly. Otherwise you will try to stay away from them, but evading them will most likely cause you to be less effective and you will not create much space
Well if you are not gonna switch then i reccomend being on higher ground and poke them if they're focus putting pressure in the front line Like the corner at the start at route 66 just make sure your dont poke your head to far because the hog can just drag you down. If you're going to engage dont use your jetpack when coming done since you are at high ground.bubble dance when you fight both of them,bait roadhog hook with your shield and go in and out with your shield when going against reaper/roadhog but when the shield cracks jump out. This usually agros the reaper which causes him overextend but when he does you can go for the supports which he has to go back and protect,this is a oppurntunity for the team to jump in and take him out. This works great with d.va dm so just make the d.va DM's you when you are taking damage. I dont know if this helps, i use this alot and i dont have problems with reaper/hogs. Just tell me if this works
Yeah i've been trying this a little bit. I really need to work on saving jump pack though
Yea man i used have that mentallity that jumping straight into the supports would get me kill but hog/reap really made me play differently even better.

Dva ejection prediction?
When you kill dva mech does baby dva have a predetermined ejection path? Or are there different arcs and directions she can control? And if so which directions? She initially jumps from the top of the mech and she can control her direction and how high she jumps (by holding jump).

If you are playing a hero that has explosive damage, such as Pharah, Junkrat, Soldier or Zarya, you can grenade/rocket the top of the mech, just as she is exiting it, to get a guaranteed hit on her. This will make her below half HP in most cases.
It's a controlled path, more or less. One of the reasons you should fire helix rocket or Zarya alt fire as she ejects is to get the free damage and usually knock her further into the air since it's easier to track falling targets. Careful though, you can sometimes knock her onto a second story floor for a Jack Sparrow escape if she's really lucky.
If you’re playing a hero with splash, shoot the back area of the mech (where she gets out) just as she ejects, you’ll always hit the splash.
Always exits from the same point, but can control the direction and if you hold space you will be ejected higher.

Also a neat trick that I haven't seen posted on this thread; as rein, mini dva can be consistently killed before she ejects. If you attack the mech after it's killed, mini dva inside will still take damage (75 per hit), and a second swing as she ejects will deal the 150 to kill her. If you time it right, she can't escape no matter what she does, though some times killing her right away is not the best choice.
she can jump out of the mech and choose her path where she wants to go (forwards, backwards, left, right, etc.)
> and how high she jumps (by holding jump).

Well! Til. Thanks!
ive always had success with lateralish rear ejections like a 150 degree arc.
Not sure if the method has changed, but I haven't been able to do this for awhile now. Can't remember exactly which patch it was after which it stopped working for me, but you used to be able to *flyy* by holding jump as you ejected. Now it's pretty tame.
>lateralish rear ejections

Best band name ever


I had to google that word just to make sure whether it was a word or not...

I'm not sure how I feel rn
Might be in the timing.  My last game played today I saw a baby dva totally launch out of suit, it took me by surprise how high she got because it seems lately baby dva hasn't been launching like she used too.
Hmm I'll try it different ways when I can. I used to just hold space from the moment my mech died till I eject, and it would just launch me.
Hm. I wonder if this is consistent with the basketballs being fucked. Each time they got fucky, folks were reporting strange shit with hero trajectory.

People who managed to improve their aim, what did you do that helped?
For anyone that started out with not so great aim but managed to improve it to a good level, what did you do that helped?

Post any drills/practice habits/anything else that was beneficial.I've made some changes recently to my setup and I've noticed a marked improvement in my aim.

* Locked my DPI to 700, no changing.
* Bought a high precision mouse.
* Got a much bigger mouse pad.
* Upgraded to a 144hz monitor w/ gsync
* Practiced my shot timing. I'll take more time to line up shots instead of spamming. 
* Dumped my graphics settings to mainly low / medium in order to keep my FPS around the cap (300)
In terms of practice habits, you want to follow a loop that looks like this:

1. Identify a deficiency
2. Find a way to practice to improve that deficiency
3. Do that practice
4. go back to 1

For example, I found that I relied on strafe aiming too much. So to fix that I would go into the practice range, where the moving bots are, and I would just take my left hand off the keyboard while shooting. This way, the only possible way I could hit my shots would be to use my right arm, which is exactly what I wanted to practice doing.
I play aim hero but idk if I do it the way most people do. I only use the reflex mode and I do custom difficulty where I have the target stay out for 1 second, then I focus on smoothly moving my cursor over to the target before I hit it. I think this helps with my tracking so I'm less shaky in game.

But what really helped me improve is playing comp (not quick play, this is important) and focusing exclusively on aiming well and not trying to win. I noticed my aim was improving when I played qp with no pressure on myself, but as soon as I moved to comp I cared really hard about winning and couldn't think about stuff I needed to work on. So I did my best to drop that mindset and stopped caring if I won or lost. I muted voice comms and just tunnel vision super hard on placing my crosshair over the target before I clicked and tried to smoothly track. I dropped a ton of SR but my aim got way better. I think for a lot of people their inability to accept losing SR keeps them from improving. 
(context warning: console scrub)

I switched linear ramp on, now that it's been fixed.
Mystery heroes, forcing me to try to be effective with McCree since mid-S4.
[deleted]
OW for PS4 is the first FPS I've ever tried to be good at, especially online. My aim when I started OW beta was insanely bad. I got better over time but two things made a HUGE difference that practice couldn't.

1) Kontrol Freaks stick grips. These work so so well. I personally have the Vortex but any would do. 

2) When aim ease in was added in the last patch everything changed. I found a post talking about how they found settings that are like other FPS games and tried it. Almost everything about my gameplay improved drastically. I always wanted to at least mess around with Genji, never could until now. I have the sens all the way to 100 and it's amazing. If you want the settings let me know but I've gone from mediocre aim to very accurate within a few matches, to try things out. 
Would average 25% on sombra and tracer back in January, and now hitting 40-50% with them, and 70-80% with Ana depending on team comp! 

A bunch of things contributed to that improvement, among them getting a better mouse, mousepad, 144hz monitor, and just playing the game a lot. 

I think the two main things were picking up aim hero and drilling that reflex and lighting gun mode, and actually turning UP my sensitivity. It's at 800dpi/5 in game sens now, more than double what I used to play with. My actions always felt sluggish and I couldn't turn fast enough at all, and everything felt so *slow*. Amping that sens. made my tracking/flicking much snappier, and somehow much smoother too.
I practiced. A lot. Like it took me 60-70 hours on Ana to not be bad at aiming. This might be a little Ana specific.

* Practice is not the same as playing. I have a goal I pick to work on every play session, and try to consciously correct myself when I make mistakes. Auto pilot is your worst enemy. It's how you'll fall back into bad habits. You need to be constantly thinking about what you're trying to practice.
* When learning to hip fire, I spent probably 10 hours of QP time chanting in my head "lead the shot", so I would remember to lead and not fall back into auto pilot bad habits.
* I practiced scoped shots even if it wasn't the best choice. I practiced flicking people at mid close range, then when I got more confident I started trying to hit the Genji across the map. At some point, I learned how to scope in and fire quickly for quick scoped shots.
* This might not affect a lot of people, but I realized I wasn't trying to make shots I was afraid I might miss. I was afraid of wasting ammo on a shot I might miss, and I wasn't even attempting the shots. I consciously decided to always fire at the target that needed the healing, even if it was a hard shot so I could practice those difficult shots.
* When I had a little bit of time to kill, but didn't want to start a game, I would climb to the roof of the practice range and jump onto the roof of the 2 story building (the one with the bots shooting at each other standing still). The angle is a bit weird, so it would let me practice weird angled shots which I am particularly bad at. I also practice shots on bots moving perpendicular to me by standing to the sides of the bots coming out of the doors.
So I haven't seen it mentioned here yet, but there is a lot that goes into seeing improvement in your aim. It's not as simple as hitting more shots or difficult shots. Improving your aim is not just a single mechanical skill, even if that's what most people focus on, it also includes target awareness, acquisition, and rapid adjustment.

I heavily play Widow, McCree, Soldier, Sombra, and Tracer -- all of these heroes require a degree of skill in both Tracking and Flicking. I gauge my improvement not by game stats (I don't check my accuracy stat in OW) but by clutch eliminations. Killing who I want, when I want, and when I need to. It's only obvious to you if you *could have* killed that Mercy if you didn't miss your last few shots. So essentially, for my rank, I went from not killing that Mercy/Lucio, to killing them consistently.

Here is what I did in order to improve my aim. Did this routine every day, and continue doing it, for at least 10-15 minutes.

* I practice my aim using the Training Room. I focus on doing headshots only and use Kephrii's routine of shooting 6 bots in the head as fast as possible. I go for accuracy versus time. After a while I notice my average time has improved.
* I train my flicks using the Training Room as well. If I can't get 5-6 killstreak with Widow, then my flick and scope charge timing are off. Use all the bots from all distances.
* I warm up my target acquisition by murdering those same training bots as McCree, but this time I shoot to kill and move on to the next bot. If I lose track of a bot before it dies (it moves behind cover) I need to hit another bot in it's place and go back to murdering my original target. Do not follow the bots, just stay in one general area and let them take cover.

Your goal isn't to do this until your fingertips bleed. Do 10-15 minutes in total to get yourself fully engaged in the game. It doesn't matter if you think the bots have a stupidly large hitbox or if they are predictable. That just means you have ZERO excuse to miss. But you will miss -- everyone will miss.  
&nbsp;


**Play Arcade/Quickplay (Deathmatch)**  
Deathmatch is the new king of aim training because of how screwy things can get. I am thinking about writing an article for how people can level up in FFA; I believe it is THAT helpful. You need to understand that it isn't about winning, but it is about hitting your shots. If you want to win, you need to practice your character play and gamesense not just your aim.  

Anyways, go into a game, load up McCree/Tracer, and get to work. Hit body shots, then move on to hitting body shots while aiming for the neck. Duel the enemy McCree at a distance. Duel a Hanzo. Duel Genji, Tracer, Pharah, Symmetra, all squishies. Be opportunistic: Take out anyone who is low health while they are dueling others. If you can't get that shot off right before they die and you lose the kill, your aim still needs improvement. 

Just by playing FFA you will be introducing yourself to incredible levels of complexity just not possible in Quickplay. You will think faster, shoot faster, and eventually get more accurate.
At the beginning of a match I'll pick a target (friendly teammate) and try to follow their movement with the crosshairs. After I get fluid with that, I'll try to predict their movement by moving the crosshairs in front of them as if I'm trying to lead them where to go. 

Or I'll throw up a spray and aim at specific targets in the spray. LIke Ana shrike skin head spray. I'll quickly shoot two darts where the eyes ought to be. They tend to glow and look cool. Unless your placement is off. 

That's just things I do to play around but kinda warm up. This is besides the standard bots/practice range. 
I played almost nothing but aim heroes for ~100 hours in QP/comp. Mostly warm up in dm now instead of QP. Drills bore me to tears and I find my aim is pretty consistent and strong without them anyway
osu

warmup before playing every day, usually by playing osu then going into practice range for a bit

simply playing the game
I turned down my sens very low and worked up to a better sens that's a bit higher.While it was low, i practice keeping me soon steady so it wasn't jittery. Then i did a bunch of tracking practice with and without shooting.i did it with smart targets (Ana) and fast ones (Lucio).
I changed my mouse sens. Found a Skyline video that showed how to optimize it. It was like night and day.
I used to have fairly bad aim, my hands are too shakey for precise shots and I'd get even shakier during high-pressure situations. What really helped is remembering to think things through, calm down, breath. A big thing I learned as Reaper when you are often in close range fights, don't fire wildly, set up each shot because one shot from you is probably worth a lot more than whatever they are shooting you with. This applies to just about any hero.

My aim is now decent enough I don't feel like dead-weight playing Ana or other hitscan. Don't ask me to focus a pharah though. 
Find another player, 1v1 McCree(or anyone you want to practice) only DM, Final Destination(Castillo or any simple map). I highly recommend to  turn off FtH(or any annoying and distracting abilities) and leaving the rest default. Maybe play with score and time limit.
Play Deathmatch with one hero for a few hours and try to only get headshots with them.  Did this with Zen and can outdual most people 1v1, hit a pick from across a map and hit his alt around a corrner more consistently now.  Started doing this with tracer and mccree and I'm getting headshots more consistently with them too.
Just played a lot. These days I find DM is a great place for practice, but I didn't do anything but comp before this mode appeared.
- found a good middle ground sensitivity/dpi combo and stuck with it to get used to it
- relentlessly assessed what was causing me to miss and try to do something different to correct it
- 2 similar situations: aimed differently in each but was more accurate in one of them *hypothesis* maybe in those types of situations it's better to aim with that style then? -> test/experiment -> observe -> analyze observations and results -> conclude -> conceptualize -> practice

- E.g., a lot of situations I found out when I tried to track smoothly/carefuly with mccree I missed more even when it seemed like it was a great situation to track smoothly/carefully and realized that when I got reticle a bit close then did a mini flick I landed more shots that way. So I started trying it more and it worked better and now that is my muscle memory. 
* Changed my sensitivity as follows

>> 1) started with sens at the distance needed so my full mousemat width was a 360. lets call that x [example: x = 10]

>> 2) set y = 0.5

>> 3) set LOW = x-yx, HIGH = x+yx [example: LOW = 10-0.5(10) = 5, HIGH = 10+0.5(10) = 15]

>> 4) practice drills at both LOW and HIGH sens, and decide which one naturally feels better - be sure to practice long enough that you warm up, and practice FINGER, WRIST and ARM movements. finger for small adjustments (strafe at long range), wrist for medium adjustments (strafe at medium range), arm for big adjustments (strafe at close range). if the sens is too high, you'll overaim with the fingers, if it's too low you'll struggle to move your arm enough to keep up with close range things moving past you. practice tracking moving bots, practice flick shots, practice 180 shots, chaining headshots (i use mcree for most of this) -- then switch to genji and practice generally jumping around and trying 3 shuriken + dash combos. try chain them, 3 shuriken headshot, dash to finish, repeat repeat repeat. on the group of moving bots in the training map this requires lots of quick turns and *not* faceplanting into walls, i feel this really lets you know your mobility limits for general panning. pick EITHER LOW or HIGH and decide which one felt *better* then set x = that sens [example, you thought 15 felt better, so x = 15 now]

>> 5) y = y - 0.1 [example y = 0.4]

>> 6) go back to step 3, and repeat until eventually the differences between the LOW and HIGH should be fairly negligible as they converge, pick the one you like, and if you can't decide use the average of the two.  the idea here is that you find the sensitivity that doesn't limit what you can do, allows the most use of all three parts of your arm you're going to be using (mitigating over and under-aiming as much as possible) -- and also ideally requiring the least amount of warm up time, because it's the most comfortable.

* warm up before play for about 10 mins with the drills above (4), the key parts there for me are tracking and flick shots with mccree, then mobility stuff with genji, really warm up all the muscles in my hand, and just get those headshots on point. try not overthink the shot, shoot fast, flick fast, if your reaction time is inherently bad you can cheese your accuracy by predicting where the bots will be (even though you're hitscan) -- really push yourself to reduce the amount of time it takes for your crosshair to be on target, not just knowing where they are going to be and waiting for them to move into it -- real players are not so predictable as the bots

* made a conscious effort to jump less when i'm trying to land shots and concentrate on my crosshair instead

* made a conscious effort to take high ground wherever possible, the angle you have to track someones head when they are moving at a different elevation requires not only horizontal tracking but vertical too, i realised at first i was bad on the high ground because my vertical tracking was not as consistent as my horizontal -- so i forced myself to do it, and i'm seeing an improvement there too

* for widow/ana changed relative scoped sensitivity such that traversing the screen requires the same amount of mouse movement when scoped and unscoped. For me this was a value of 50. I've seen reports for it being different for different people (perhaps a different ratio of mouse DPI to in-game sens, or resolution based maybe? not sure - 50 felt right for me).


I had nonexistent aim when I started since OW is pretty much my first fps I've played with mkb. Genuinely kinda wish I'd recorded my matches when I first started playing so I could compare it to now, but oh well. To start with, I mostly played D.Va, Reaper, wished I could be decent at Genji, and couldn't reliably hit a Pharah on 76. Now I main McCree and can hold my own in plat and against low dias.

Things I did:

- I had super high sens to start with (7000/15 since I didn't realise that the default sens being at 15 is really dumb; 7000 dpi is from playing mobas and rtses for years), so lowered that. In game sens to 7 (never changed this since), and then I lowered my dpi to 3000 or so -> 1800 -> 1200 -> finally to 800 which is where I'm at now. I originally stayed at 1200 for a good while, but then I realised I couldn't 180 properly since I wasn't arm aiming, and lowered my sens to 800, which forced me to arm aim. I would go lower, but this is the lowest sens at which I can still 360 without lifting my mouse, plus I play Genji/Tracer and this is also the lowest sens at which they don't feel weird/slow.

- For about 2 weeks straight I did training range drills for at least half an hour every day (reason being I couldn't play OW at the time, so I just practised aim instead). Mostly flicking drills iirc, with some tracking. I don't use the training range anymore since I got Aim Hero recently, but [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VysgMqzU3Qk) (the one at the start with the 6 bots) is the only drill I kept doing after that 2 week period.

- Like an idiot I kept playing heroes that don't rely on aim that much (Reaper/D.Va/Genji; only exceptions being Zen/Ana and they don't really count since my Zen aim was/is awful, and hitting teammates on Ana is easy), so all of the above didn't really make that much of a difference to begin with (my 76 did get a tiny bit better though). But then at some point in June or so I kind of accidentally started learning McCree and realised how awful my aim was (but muuuch better than when I first tried him). I was tilted af during the double exp event and decided to spam nothing but McCree and Hanzo in qp, who at the time were my worst heroes by far. For some reason ended up sticking with McCree in qp even after I got untilted. And then I started playing him a bit in comp. And then I played nothing but him in comp/qp, only switching/flexing if I really had to. And then I made a McCree only account (which is now a 'mostly McCree+Tracer+Genji, sometimes other heroes' account but oh well). And now I've got 3 times as much playtime on him as my second most played hero. I'm not gonna admit to how many hours I have on McCree since my aim is still not as good as it should be given just how much I've played him but yeah.

Tldr: fixed my dpi/sens, did aiming drills, found an aim-reliant hero I really liked and just played a stupid amount of it.

Also like I said, I got Aim Hero recently. I pretty much just spam Medium Reflex, but what I do is set up a custom session with the same parametres as Medium, except I've got the target delay/lifetime set to 0.7s at the start of each practise session. And then I pretty much just gradually work my way down to 0.45 (the default time) and spam that for a while (I do something like 0.7s > 0.6 > 0.55 > 0.5 > 0.45). Reason being that I'd rather start out slow and accurate (90% accuracy on 0.7s), and then work my way up to being faster. Ideally I'd be able to start at 0.6 or 0.5 instead of 0.7, but eh. I'll get there.

Edit: almost forgot. I also have my resolution set to 75% with high textures and low everything else. So I've got a constant fps of 120. But honestly the 75% res thing is what's helped the most, it's ridiculous how much better the game felt.

Also FFA is the best game mode. I think I've played a total of 2 qp matches since it came out. I dunno, it's amazing for me since in qp I'd usually try and find the highest elo player on the enemy team, or just the most annoying one or whatever, and go and duel them constantly. Now I can do that to everyone, all the time, without fucking my team over. It's both been amazing for getting better/quicker at aiming on McCree, and also for learning how to duel people on Tracer/Genji since I used to be absolutely awful at that (I'm still awful, but much less so).
Warm-up everyday.  Run yourself through tracking targets and flicks of varying distance across your screen during warm-up.  Work on muscle memory.  Play a lot.

That's the best way.  
try sensitivity find out what you like and dont change repeat. try fore arm on desk, elbow on desk, try being 45° to your desk. learn the range of motions and where your natural strengths are. 
My hitscan aim improved a lot and became more consistent to be played at a GM/Top 500 level by lowering my sens to 800 4.5.

Then i played with it a lot lot lot and can play Genji with it aswell.
Only thing i would need to improve with aiming even more is get a actual gaming PC.
Played way too fucking much Overwatch.
I've done several things that have helped drastically improve my aim 

- lowered my DPI from 1200 to 800
- lowered in-game sens from 13 to 6
- turned mouse acceleration off (yikes)
- started using my whole arm to aim instead of just my wrist
- practice flick shots against training bots and then Ana bots
- practice in QP

All of these changes were great for helping me build the necessary muscle memory required to effectively play heroes like Hanzo, Ana, and McCree. It definitely did take some getting used to, but I made noticeable improvements after only an hours or so.
Its not rocket science. Pick a sens youre comfortable with and play the game. Thats pretty much it.

Of course you can adjust your setup and your settings to get less input lag for example. However, these things dont suddenly make your aim better. Theres simply no shortcut which is why a lot of people struggle.
I had shit aim. But now it's not terrible. Honestly the biggest thing I've done that really helped is not to begin shooting then look for your target. But instead to find your target and place your cross hair on them and then begin shooting. Also shoot relaxed. Being tense doesn't always mean quick reflexes or whatever 
I played a lot of games and didn't put too much pressure on myself in each game.


I lightened my mouse by taking a battery out.
I just dropped my graphics settings to low, increased my DPI to 1600 with my sens at like 3 and just those two things upped my game a lot. I always thought because I have a 980ti that I could use high settings and get away with it, but I guess not. I get pretty salty because I've always seemed to have this ceiling where I couldn't get better, land my shots, etc. It seems way better now.
I find training bots too predictable in their movement for any serious practice. I always do super well when playing against training bots on hitscan heroes.
Pretty much what I did with only playing comp and quickplay. Focus on slowly aiming targets and then speeding up. 

Went from silver mccree (avg of 10 elims per game session) to masters/gm. 

There isn't a secret sauce. I had no experience with fps/pc games. Just played slowly and focused on aiming 

Your last point I think is underestimated. People place too much value on the Sr. If you are so afraid to lose it because of the fear of getting it back then you were never meant to be at that rank. It's inflated. I know I am at a bare minimum master player (never tried playing past it due to life) BECAUSE I know I can easily climb back up there no matter where I drop. Thus I can say I am a masters. Just play the game
I think stressing out about winning, whether I'm really contributing in the team, especially as DPS, makes me a poor DPS. When I play tank or support, I don't have this pressure of having to overthink my actions because.. I don't know why. I think I might try muting voice comms thing. 
> As of today, my aim sits at around 73-76%

That's very high. Higher than many famous Ana players actually. I looked it up [a while ago](https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/64j73j/why_do_people_laugh_at_mercy_players_on_here/dg2vq6a/). With the new season and the fact some of them haven't even started the new season the current profiles aren't really reliable, but the ones that have time on Ana have an accuracy percentage in the low seventies. So if yours is 73-76%, that's impressive. But it could mean that you focus too much on accuracy and as a result not fire enough shots.

I agree with your comment though. That's the way to improve.
Can you link me to that post please? My aim has been awful since the last update. 
Yeah death match helped tonnes, I used to have a hard time with McCree v Genji, but after dying uncountable times to Genji's in death match, it's now 50/50 :/.... 
This?

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4kwyNgZL6so
I hear you dude. I have a 1080 and it feels backwards playing on low when I can breeze the game on ultra. But frame latency is a thing, and the more frames the better :D
In my opinion/experience, you can't practice prediction on anything other than players. However, the fact that bots move in predictable ways means you can isolate specific mechanical actions that you are screwing up in game. 
So much this. 100% why I found my mains in Zenyatta and DVA. For Zenyatta orbs and being alive to use orbs are bare minimum to contribute. Poor aim? Spam chokes and melt tanks with body shots and nobody will blink an eye. Zero pressure and that fact alone is scary powerful for me at least. Honestly I can successfully land more shots on pharah as Zen than I can on Soldier. 

 As zen, straight up Icing a Pharah to force a switch, without a hitscan on your team,  is what I imagine cocaine feels like. Miss badly and nobody says anything except to tell junk/reaper to switch to hitscan. 

Same with dva. Stay in mech, use matrix for the ults/burst dmg, protect the supports. Launch ult (at a reasonable time ) and kill 0 people? Nobody says jack because you have already saved half their lives multiple times. No pressure, but get a nasty ult and it's smiles all around. 

But man, a bad earth shatter, or pharah alive after a couple 3 round burst shots on soldier, and you'll get asked to switch or berated mercilessly 

Edit: tldr for rant. Expectation level and team performance can impact my aim big time If you take comp too seriously. Confidence is a big factor 
Here is the post: https://www.reddit.com/r/OWConsole/comments/6x1f6n/after_extensive_testing_i_have_found_control

I don't use their settings, though. Here are mine:

Vertical and Horizontal Sensitivity: 100
Aim Assist Strength: 100
Aim Assist Window Size: 24
Aim Smoothing: 33
Aim Ease In: 50
Aim Technique: Linear Ramp

Try those out and let me know, although everyone is different and you might need to change some things. Don't be afraid of the 100 sensitivity; try a few deathmatch games and then mess with em. 
Very impressive! Sometimes, getting one headshot is all it takes for your opponent to back off. If you match up with someone of equal skill as Genji, you basically ignore Flashbang and Deflect and it comes down to sheer ability and movement.  

As a reminder to everyone reading this: Don't forget -- a headshot that makes Genji back off is a decisive victory in the game of Overwatch. Remember that training your aim is to hit a player when you want to hit them, not necessarily to kill them in all circumstances and situations. 
Video linked by /u/dick-waffle:

Title|Channel|Published|Duration|Likes|Total Views
:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:
[Overwatch COMPLETE Settings Guide For 2017 (+DPI and Sens calibration!)](https://youtube.com/watch?v=4kwyNgZL6so)|Skyline|2017-02-05|0:17:01|5,140+ (95%)|275,929

> In this video I go over every important setting in...

---

[^Info](https://np.reddit.com/r/youtubot/wiki/index) ^| [^/u/dick-waffle ^can ^delete](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=_youtubot_&subject=delete\%20comment&message=dmrmrqw\%0A\%0AReason\%3A\%20\%2A\%2Aplease+help+us+improve\%2A\%2A) ^| ^v2.0.0
That's the one!
You do know that G-sync basically cuts out input lag right? Frame latency also isn't going to affect your game very much at all, even if you are a pro player IMO. There's no need to push 300 frames 24/7. FPS dips are fine even below 144 because of your G-sync monitor, it's just not ideal

TL;DR: Play on ultra if you like it looking pretty, it won't affect your gameplay substantially
G-sync cuts display lag down as much as possible. Lowering your setting cuts the system lag, as in how after you push shoot, how long it takes for the internal simulation to process and pipe that data to your graphics output. People get a system lag of like... 20 ms? and without G-sync display lag is massively variable, but a rough estimate is around 5-15. IIRC G-sync cuts display lag to like 2 or something ridiculous.

Then there's network ping and server side lag compensation processing too...
Isn't the system lag you're talking about just the time it takes to render a frame? 20 ms is a ridiculous amount of lag, man.
To be brief, I mean the interal SIM value. You can check yours with ctrl+shft+N in game. Some people have Sim scores lower than 5, and some have over 30. Mine sits at around 14.
this.

How To Adjust To Less Sensitivity
Tl;dr: How does someone adjust to significantly reducing mouse sensitivity, or what sort of practice outside of gameplay could I do to help familiarize myself with lower sensitivity?

So, I'm not really sure why, but ever since starting Overwatch I've had it on weirdly high sensitivity and honestly never really noticed (for context, I started playing at launch). I'm not bad at Overwatch (got to Masters last season), and even as far as accuracy goes I'm generally in the top quarter of players for the hero on Overbuff. However, I aim like a fucking meth addict, and now that I know that that's my big issue, I'm trying to figure out how to go for a much lower sensitivity. I was at around an 11 when I had a wireless mouse and no mouse pad (no laughing, I had no money for a better one at the time) and now I'm around a 7 usually, but I can still clearly see that I need to go way lower. I just need an idea of where to start and if anyone has any pointers on getting used to that lower level. Thanks in advance!You should be able to do a 180 comfortably on your playing space, emphasis on comfortably. I went from 15/2650 to 4.5/400 and it was just playing more so I can adjust to it

I'm 4353 sr for reference, play alot of Winston 76 and Ana 
Play more
I move mine around depending on what I'm maining in the season. Im playing a lot of tanks(monkey/Dva didn't need much accuracy rather be able to do faster 180s) and supports this season and less Soldier/McCree so I'm at 800/5.2. But I used to use 800/3.X. 

The current one also feels better when I play Tracer and Pharah which are the only DPS I've been playing this season really. 
I used to play at 2000 dpi and default sens. I'm now down to 1600 dpi and 2.08 sens. Just play more.

That said, this video has helped some folks: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GRFWLJazYYo
A big mouse pad helps a lot, but my best advise is to slowly move it down and see what works best
Ok. What kind of sensitivity would you recommend/use?
i don't recommend slowly moving down, you'd have to adjust a hundred times and never get a good feel about it

just jump into the cold water put it down to a good low value and then play a ton with it until you get used to

best start with something that matches a 360° to one width of the mousepad
Idk dude i use 2.7 800 dpi (same as in csgo) and i got used to it . Just play more and try to find your own sens
Shit, I'm playing at like a 1500 dpi and 7 sensitivity. Hence the shaking like a meth addict.
Play more. No for real there s no guide for shit like that. You get used to less or more.

Soldier 76 and some tanking VOD Help on PS4
https://youtu.be/5x18DZ9FIa4

The video starts with me trying to tank properly which is a big failure. I thought I did really good as 76 on defense, though of course, my dumbass auto-pilot lost us the game. I just want to know if my soldier game was really good. I don't mind a tip or two on tanking, it's obvious I failed miserably so any advice is very welcome.

I'm by no means a pro, but as someone who plays quite a lot of soldier I think you did really well for the most part with your positioning. As Soldier you're not a frontline attacker or a flanker like Tracer/Reaper. You should be playing off the high ground and picking off targets, which brings me to my next point - Target Priority.

 You didnt really make any huge errors here, but just remember, soldier isn't the most effective at shredding tanks so priority should generally be on; 1-Healers/Supports, 2- 200 HP Heroes, 3-Everyone else.

The biggest mistake I noticed was your tendency to shoot at Heroes that are being actively healed by mercy, and Zarya shields. All this does is feed Mercy and Zarya Ults. You should always try to kill the support before attacking anyone being supported.

Also I don't reccomend getting into 1v1's with heroes like Genji or Tracer. There so hard to hit as a hitscan, and they do so much damage your odds of winning are terrible. Try to regroup with your team and let them help you out if you can.

Hope something I said helped :)

Is getting an ALT (Smurf) worth it?
I think I might actually place higher that way, fresh start - playing my best. Does it actually work that way tho?If you wanna do it to get a higher rank: don't even bother. Despite everyone shouting how broken matchmaking is it actually does a pretty good job at ranking you where you are supposed to be. You'll simply end up where you are now.

If you want to broaden your hero pool however, feel free to get an alt. I suck at DPS and support and got myself an alt for the very sole reason of practicing those heroes without butchering my main's SR (and borderline throw matches for my fellow teammates)
I just consider it an alternate account since the system places you where you belong pretty fast. It was worth it for me because it made me approach the game a lot calmer and not tilt. I also was able to learn and master new heroes that I wouldn't normally get to play on my other account 
Yes. I have 3 accounts and i'll tell you from experiance, some days you just don't want to play on your main account. maybe people are super toxic that day, or you lost 2 and don't want to lost any more SR for your main but you still want to play Comp. Say you want to learn a hero better but aren't as good in your normal SR but you will do better at the lower SR alt account, this is where you learn.. QP can only take you so far and with an alt account you can learn and play at that level more normally and usually better anyway then the lower SR people so you'll fine. if your ALT account actually places higher than your main.. then switch roles, make your ALT your main, then have fun with your Main as if it was your ALT.  I bought a new account when i was stuck in bronze and i placed Gold 2275 and then i climbed to plat at the end of the season in that account and now in diamond with that same ALT account.. and my other account is bouncing around in Silver and I play a lot of Heroes i never normally play, because it's fun and I still win a good 60% of my games with those off heroes.. it's worth it man, a lot.. plus it's a lot less stress when you want to play comp but not care as much, i'm not saying to no try hard, you should every time try to win, but because you have two accounts or more, you won't be so tilited when you lose some SR on your account that you know is lower than your other one anyway.
I think it's worth it once you have a reason to play both accounts.  I have friends who play at different levels in the game (and some cannot even play with each other).  Playing with one group over the other can be punishing on SR gains. 

If SR is that important for you (nothing wrong with that approach) and the game price isn't an issue then what does it really hurt? Might as well give it a shot.  Good luck either way.
I think it's awesome. I have two accounts, one high plat low diamond with soldier, and one with all other heroes at low plat high gold. If I played any of the other heroes on my main but soldier, I'd basically be throwing.
IF the problem you're having is shit teammates who don't communicate, then yeah, a fresh start will probably benefit you. If you get down to Bronze or silver, it can be profoundly difficult to climb back out. I have had games where I wipe the enemy team multiple times and the rest of my team just hangs back too scared to capitalize on the opening. I've also had games where I heal or tank through tens of thousands of points of damage, but it doesn't matter because the rest of my team can't secure any kills. There is a point at the low ranks where the lack of communication gets so bad that you literally can't carry through it, unless you're like a GM genji or widowmaker smurfing.

but if you're at like gold/platinum and not ranking up, that's probably just where you're at skill-wise.
It's good if you want to try out new heroes without worrying about your rank or if your account's in Diamond+ and you can't queue with your friends.
If you have made a lot of improvement since initially making your main account then yes it will be easier to level up on an alt. As you play the game it calculates a hidden mmr (matchmaking rank). When you first start playing that number will increase or decrease faster because it will try to find your true mmr. But the longer you play and stay at one rank the more it will assume that you are at your true rank so the harder it will be to level up. What I found on my alt is that within a couple weeks I made it to the same level as my rank on my alt which took me multiple seasons to get. However once I reached my true rank it was just as hard to level up as it is on my alt. 

In my opinion the best use for an alt account is to have one account that you solo que on and one account that you play with your friends on. Especially if you are in masters or higher where you can only play with people within a 500 sr range. 
It's really nice to have another account, but I'll warn you though that it's actually HARDER to climb the higher you get.

On my alt I play(ed) against a lot of other low lvl accounts, and chances are higher they are smurfs the higher up you go in rank (a low level probably does not reach diamond+ if it's his/her first account). Given that I was technically not a smurf anymore after reaching diamond (my main is/was 3100-3200), it made for some pretty hard games to say the least ;). 
It increased my comp hero pool. Cos on alt you're free to try. Even if it's not one of your mains, but you feel like it's the right hero to pick - why the hell no. 

And also I use it when I want to play more, but feel a bit tired already. Before I got alt I'd just keep playing on my main acc. So, I guess, yep, it worth it.
Most of my friends achieved a higher rank with less playtime, but I haven't made that experience myself.
Let’s get this straight:

Smurf: you intentially place lower than your rank or derank in order to hard carry for fun. This ruins competitive

Alt: you either play outside of your hero pool to learn or youplay your regular hero pool. But this is for fair match making and learning so you don’t derank your main by playing hero’s you’re just learning. This is fine
I don't give a shit about trying to place higher on my alt and even then it was worth it for me. I did actually end up with a higher season high (2891 vs 2623 on my main), but my current rank is lower than my main (2510, main is 2604). This season I got placed 2807 on my alt, and 2602 on my main.

In my case I got an alt acc since I always duo with someone 500sr above me on my main, and genuinely felt like I was holding them down in comp, not to mention that I felt like my aim was beyond awful. So I got an alt account for onetricking McCree. And while my aim still isn't dia level, at least it's good enough for plat. I also did it to find out if I got carried out of gold, and while I might have, at least now I'm capable of getting myself into at least 2750.
I ended up with an extra 1000sr on my Smurf. At first it was nice but now I'm just annoyed that it came that easily. 
Exactly what bothers me, hmm i guess it isn't worth it then. cause the only reason is to try and get higher rank. i mean i've known a guy who  was stuck at diamond and then broke to masters after getting an alt
Depends on what you play, if you rely a lot on team you could deserve a higher SR, a player I play with is a Lucio player and he has a main account in gold but his new account placed In diamond
This is exactly why I got a smurf. It's kind of my test lab. The place where I can go and try out and work on heroes until I'm confident in them and able to play them on my main account. I'm a support main so I usually use it to work on my aim and DPS skills. 
Did you actually place higher tho? I really believe I deserve higher rank. I'm floating around 3k
Thanks!
This just frustrates the hell out of me, man. Please try not to take this personally, because it's a systemic issue. When I use the term "you" here, it is to "this guy", and not you personally 

It's a NOTICEABLE difference when people make these alts to play garbage heroes in our comp games a tier lower, just naturally more indifferent to the result because "lol whatever, I'm really diamond", and so I lose because you don't care as much and just want to play Sombra.

So I'm hypothetically equally as good as you, or at least in the ballpark, but I'm now another 20 SR further from catching you because you don't give a shit on your alt because "lol whatever I'm diamond anyway" and you paid $30 for the ability to ruin my comp games where I'm giving 110%. 

How am I supposed to climb running into at least one of these guys 70% of my games? It's why streaks are so wild for almost everyone. How many serious, committed, properly ranked teammates am I getting? Sometimes it's no one else, sometimes it's all 5. Luck of the draw. 
If you want to improve, review your vods. Get better and the number will follow, there is no shortcut. Put in effort or stay stuck, simple as that.

If you have a hard time spotting your own mistakes check out WaWas bootcamp, you can get free coaching there.
So, just because he broke masters doesn't mean that he is a masters player. You're going to have a natural fuzz around your rank. It's probably around ±100SR and then you have to account for streaks which might easily swing another 150 SR. You need to think about how much SR you think you're going to gain by having an alt. Think about how many games it takes to get it to 25, and compare it to whether if you just played those games on your main if you would be able to get to your goal. Think about your skins. Think about juggling accounts and the separate friends lists. Masters is great, but you'll fall if you're not good enough, and there's no guarantee that you'll actually place up there
I did this to get out of bronze a few seasons back, it took me to gold bro. i knew for a fact my mechanics and gamesense were SO much better then a bronze player, and I was right, but Phr3nic is right if you truly DO play at the level you're in and not leading in golds in the proper fields you're suppose to lead in for that hero, then you will get placed in a similar SR. The SR system isn't broken and their algorithms are pretty good at getting you to a place where they think you will have a 50/50 win rate. and remember your first few games (5-10 games) are super sized with SR gains and losses, so take them seriously and take breaks when needed, i have gained a good 400 SR in 8 games after placements because of this.
I will answer the question for you:. NO. It is NOT worth it and it is a waste of time 

You first five games you will crush and possibly feel bad as to how easy the game is. 

Then after 5 games you start getting matched with platinum players. Then five more games I'm back to playing with masters/gm players BUT THE QUEUE TIMES ARE AT LEAST FIVE MINUTES! 

The game does a good job getting you to your "true" MMR so it isn't like you are playing against easier opponents, and the queue times are super long on purpose to discourage alt accounts 

TL;DR: after 10 games you will be where you were except it will take an annoyingly long time to get into games 

I stopped trying to level up to level 25 bc for every real time hour i would finish maybe 3 matches 
Part of that might be there's less 'pressure' when playing on a smurf. 
I have 2 alts. One i bought myself and one from a friend who stopped playing after half a year. And both of the are exactly up at 3207, 3211 and 3348. So you should rank about the same in all your accounts if you really play at your SR. I like to split losses through my accounts tho. I start at first account and switch account once i lose. So i get rid of lossstreaks when they were still a thing
First time I did placements I placed right below plat instantly climbed to diamond with sombra on a 70% win. My other account is mid diamond to early master. I believe if I played my other account more I would surpass my original account, however I haven't put in enough of the time to try and get to masters with it. I use it more to learn the heroes I enjoy playing but never get the chance to play since ppl look at my hero pool and see supports and tracer. I doubt you'll place higher on first placements on new account unless you do absurdly good 
The chances of them being on the enemy team are much higher than them being on your team, since your team consists of 5 others while the enemy has 6. By your logic, you're getting boosted more SR than you are losing. You are just choosing to focus on losing SR. Also, everyone goes through these types of games, you are not alone and it is part of climbing.
I play mostly zarya on my alt, and when I do I usually get gold elims and team winning gravs. I'll also fill, and play rein, symm, and Mercy. Last game I played symm I was gold elims, damage, ptg. I do try. I want to rank up with zarya. I'd like to get my alt to diamond.

I think the only unfair thing is when I play soldier on the alt account because I really want to win for some reason. Then suddenly the enemy team is facing a smurf. I'm only 400SR higher, so I'm not unbeatable, but it usually is pretty unfair.
you're talking about quick play?
Yes. I completely gave up because after 4 weekends in a row of playing 4 hours a night I was only like level 17 or something. This was with a 70%+ winrate. 

It punishes you if they think you are on a smurf, even though it matches you with players of your MMR! 
Can someone confirm this? Seems weird that they'll punish people like that. I mean, someone REALLY good might play like that at first and the system will just punish him for no reason?
Go google it dude. This has been a known issue for a while now. Pretty sure Jeff even talked about it. 

Was a total waste of $40. I don't have the free time or patience to sit around waiting at LEAST 5 mins to *maybe* finish a QP match for some XP. 
the struggle is real

Perfecting dragonblade (Genji)
Alright, so I guess you guys have seen alot of threads about this guy already, he's been called a scripter and all that..

Anyway, I don't think he's scripting, and I wish I could improve my dragonblades and become as fast as this guy to pop off. Question is, HOW do I practice this? I know that he does 2 slashes and dashes backwards towards the next enemy in a split second. Been trying to practice this in both training room and against Ana bots, but it just takes alot of practice to nail completely. Any tips/tricks/techniques/ways to practice this efficiently? I'm willing to practice this 8h each day if it's gonna help me improve.

I'm not talking about "knowing" where u enemies are etc, I mostly got that down (currently 4.2k SR), what I'm talking about is the actual super fast 180 turnaround which is what I want to nail.

I use 3 ingame sens, 1600 dpi - I've been thinking about bumping it up but not sure it's worth it as I really got used to this sens.

https://youtu.be/hQIF4PVPUZc?t=4m38s

Any help is ofc appreciated :) always looking to improve my cyborg ninja after all these years of playing him ^^


Cheers!Up your sens. I sit at about 12 in game, 800dpi and is only for genji but worldly great. My dragon blades are good just because I can do an easy 180 on my mouse pad
Yeah I use 1000 DPi and 15 sens and its funny because almost everytime I dragon blade I do a 360 for no reason I think it might be because I'm trying to look for targets.
Higher sensitivity doesn't do too much. I play at 45/45 on console, a relatively low sensitivity for a controller. I've played at both 100/100 and 10/10. If you're on PC, you should definitely keep a low sens. Using a mouse means you don't have to worry about the speed you turn around, therefore your sens should be very low. 
I have a small mouse pad because of the desk space I can use and it helps because your dashes and ultimates feel way more fluid. Plus console from my experience feels way better at the same sens. I used 50/50 and did well

2950 SR Tracer Requesting VOD Reviews
## Lijiang Tower:

Part 1: https://youtu.be/Yo7Q6vfBbtk

Part 2: https://youtu.be/ElqLA5GrOCs

## Oasis Tower:

Part 1: https://youtu.be/ajc5L1BQOuw

Part 2: https://youtu.be/cEyvUy2sHk8

Something I have the biggest issue with, if you guys would like to give me some tips/feedback on, is staying patient. Tracer isn't a character that can fight enemies head-on. You also should play her in a sneaky and patient way, being an opportunist, or waiting for your teammates to engage, and then fuck their backlines. But I find myself sometimes playing too aggressive and not being patient. Also my lack of patience causes me to blink too prematurely. 

Should I wait for my team to engage before coming in on flanks? What if my teammates aren't engaging, or aren't aggressive, or just get picked before the fight has even started? I find Tracer the hardest to play when the team plays too passive, and waits for enemies to engage them. 

I just realized they are all KOTH maps which appear to be Tracer's strong maps. I'll make an effort to record 2 CP and Hybrid maps which are maps I have a lot more trouble in because of the lack of apparent brawl locations. I would love to give you some reviews but the main issue here is i am almost the same sr as you, i have 65 hours with tracer (second most playable hero) 
I watched your first video and your problem is you're really bad at range control and very bad at knowing where you're going to aim at your blink

You're always dead center of the fight.  Furthermore because you're always so unsafe you can't get your full damage out because you're always afraid and blinking around. 

Tracer 's effective range is like 10 -15 meters but you constantly go too close to the targets then spazzing out

Also you need to work on your ult econony. You throw your ult or wildly. 
 
I think that's totally okay. I have like.. 5 hours on Tracer - 2 hours on Comp
Ok i will watch them when i wake up, i need to sleep right now

I will check them and review it 

Questions on Tracer in Season 6
Hey Tracer Mains, I've been having trouble with all the spam in the Season 6 "meta." (I'll say that this based on my experience in Gold and Silver). 

It seems with the changes to Junkrat, McCree, Zarya, Orisa, etc. there's just a lot of things that can catch you out, and with Tracer's low HP it usually means a death. How are you dealing with these changes? Are you flanking more? Are you staying back with your team more? Are you still focusing on healer's first? Or are you looking to take out your counter first? 

Thanks in advance for any responses! A lot has to do with your comp. as tracer, if you teammates can't capitalize on odd man fights or players with their back to them, you are gonna get focused.

This is not meant to be a my team sucks comment, but I've noticed that junk just doesn't secure kills, or reaper, or rein, or diva... and so on. 

They move so slowly that they can't really do anything with 5 seconds of hey no one is shooting at us.

I'm just barely in plat, so grain of salt to be taken
I find I don't engage as often unless my recall is available. And I will avoid McCree all together unless they've 100% already used their flashbang.

Not a tracer main btw, I've just been playing her a bit recently. 
Tracer had definitely become much harder to play, from my experience at 3800. What I changed from last season was: 1. Not playing tracer as much, junkrat and solider are taking up more of my time. 2. When I do play her against counters, I make sure to focus then down quick, usually asking my other DPS/Diving tank to help cause chaos. 3. I use high ground a lot more, making it so I can jump back line and still recall to somewhere completely safe. Good luck!
Tracer has definitely become less viable in this spam meta. Like others have said, you need to adapt your playstyle based on your team comp. If you have a slow sieging comp (Reinhardt, mcree, orisa, zarya) then it's best to play patiently and avoid dying by going in 1v6 when nothing is happening. Likewise, if you have a Winston diving in, the space is created for you and be sure to utilize his bubble and kill as much as you can. Its very hard to flank as tracer when your team is slow and you have to create space for yourself to make plays, unless you are already much better than your team. 
Counters first always unless a situation asks otherwise. You shouldn't be engaging until your team and their team have committed to the fight. How you position yourself before the fight is preference ie with your team or  the enemy back line. 


I play tracer mostly (was in 30's on overbuff last I looked). Used to be a hog main but rip :...( . 

The difficulty you are going to feel definently scales with what your comp/what your teammates are doing. I played a koth game recently with 3dps+ a solo tank hog. The other team had a more meta 2-2-2 compositon. It is going to be very hard for anyone on your team that is not a flanker to even press W (the hog will be melted while feeding ult).   

In situations like that you can either go in first or stand at choke with your team till you lose. I typically willl go in first. As you would expect you'll take a lot of focus and it will be difficult. So you can either deal with that or fill on another hero in that scenario. Even if you have a meta comp, you might still feel a lot of pressure from the enemy team if your team isn't really drawing any attention. 

Situations like that have always been rough though, so that isn't unique to s6.

Junkrat should not be killing you unless you are forcing a fight where you are disadvantaged. If you take a fight with him in an enclosed space where he is advantaged, get trapped, or walk into random spam, you misplayed. 

Mcree is not really harder to fight than last season. You need to understand how to bait a flash, and have good enough movement to not make hitting you easy. Google for general tips dueling mcree. It should not be an issue for you.

Zaryaa/orisa? what issue r u having.

Typically I'll fight with my team. If that works, great. If it doesn't seem to be working well, then I will approach the game differently, flanking or maybe taking more individual fights.

Picking a healer is always good. You need to be able to do it with some efficiency and consistancy for it to be worthwhile though. If you cant track a lucio well enough to kill him with some efficiency, you are probably better off shooting the tank. If that is the case your time would be better spent working on mechanics than worrying about target priotization though.

I don't really feel like a specific hero can counter you. If anything teamplay will hurt you the most, like if you have a dva activly focusing you with matrix to minimize your impact. If you have a hanzo with a mercy powerboost letting him scatter you with a large margin of error. If enemy team has a zen perma discording you.  ect

IDK how long youve been playing but you are a pretty low rank. You'll benefit most from just grinding the game, testing out different approaches you come up with, and working on mechanics. You can be a braindead vegetable and you will climb out of gold with a bit of mechanical improvement so I would put your focus on that and not the type of stuff you are asking about.

This situation is pretty much why I stopped playing Winston. I was getting focused immediately because everyone knows that's what you're supposed to do. But somehow my team could never compromise on that space. 

With Tracer I feel like it's the same. Once you see the enemy has a Tracer, you are always on the look out for them. Couple that with all the trash damage being thrown around, and it's just a tough time for Tracer. 
McCree is a super easy target. Very predictable to bait out that flashbang. Don't avoid him, shoot him a bit, wait for him to turn and notice you, then blink back, then forward to him again after he uses it. Unless he starts hitting his flashbang, I kill mccrees.
When do you make that decision to stop playing Tracer? What conditions indicate that you should switch? 
It sounds like you aren't engaging at the right time with either character. Watch the indicators over your teammates heads if you are flanking behind as tracer and try not to engage unless the enemy is at least somewhat distracted. 

If you start shooting them, or jump in as Winston, and your team isn't also already there engaged in the fight then of course they're going to focus you down
Fair enough. That's good advice. I tend to play a little too aggressive and it gets me killed. 
That works both ways tho, if you can engage and escape it gives your team a chance to engage favorably. 

It really comes down to what style best suits the team you have... I've had teams of 5 held at a choke by a solo Orissa, and I've had junk rats that wipeout both tanks as soon as the healers are distracted.

Tracer to me can be great if you can figure out what will help your team. Sometimes, the difficulty in assessing your teams needs is harder than 1 vs 1 a soldier on a healing station.
Timing when to start the fight is one of the more important skills to have. It's easier to see what's happening as a support (which I end up playing a lot) which is why I have a decent feel for it when playing tracer.

Example - let's say you're on attack. if your whole team is pushing right and you are flanking left, if you engage the fight 3-5 seconds before they do you'll probably die. The other team will just turn and focus you if they have nothing else to worry about at the moment. If your team starts to push and you engage 1 second after you may kill someone before they even realize your there.


I'm referring to engaging before your team is ready to engage. Then you are creating an opening for no one. You risk your life for no benefit. I see players do this all the time even at relatively high ranks.

You may even accidentally encourage your team to push into a situation without an advantage.

Example: 2nd point on offense on any 2CP (like hanamura). The spawn is super close for defenders. Your team is regrouping to push top right. 3 people are waiting by the entrance at the top right. 2 teammates are respawing/coming back. You, as tracer are flanking left. You go in and get a kill. The 3 see that and push. But they just pushed into a 4v5 because you still have two coming back from spawn and those 2 will probably be back around the same time or just after the person you killed.

Not sure if I explained that example well but it's a little hard to explain.
Nope, I get it... we are in agreement

2950 SR Tracer VOD Review Request
I am currently in around 2950, and decided to learn more about Tracer this season. Could someone review my Tracer VOD?

Ilios

Part 1: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oK2BpeBK4EU&feature=youtu.be

Part 2: https://youtu.be/5p3H4yHwH40

Lijiang Tower:

Part 1: https://youtu.be/Yo7Q6vfBbtk

Part 2: https://youtu.be/ElqLA5GrOCs

Oasis Tower:

Part 1: https://youtu.be/ajc5L1BQOuw

Part 2: https://youtu.be/cEyvUy2sHk8

EDIT: I just realize all these are KOTH maps. I should upload Hybrid and CP maps because I find them to be my weaker ones. GM McCree/S76/Tracer player here. Even tho' you are a decent Tracer, you still make some rookie mistakes.
  
* **Fighting enemy head on.**   
Tracer was not designed to fight at the frontline. She's pure flanking hero and I couldn't really see you flanking in that video. You had a lot of the oppurtinities and you didnt took them. 7:01 minute shows you jumping into enemy team straight on, when theres safe way around right side. Yes - it did paid off but that was a gamble and you must learn to minimalise the risk.  

* **Focusing wrong targets**  
3:37 Shooting a Hog who's getting healed by two healers at the same time. You shouldnt focus on him, I know it looks like he has low health, I know he's easy to hit - but - 2 x 200HP healers are just healing his ass and they are not being attacked by anyone. Free healer ult charge yay! You should insta focus them, preferably Ana cuz Zen was behind the Hog and there were chances that Ana would just back off behind the wall (free cover for you). She was out of nade, she cant really hit you with her sleepdart if you know what you are doing and you can't really get killed by her rifle if you keep on moving. Squishes should **fear** you. They should feel your breath at their backs 24/7.

* **Underestimating Zenyattas**  
Zen players just look harmless to flankers. One headshot and boot to your face = you get to see the spawn once again. If you are fighting Zen (or anyone tbh) try to blink behind him so he actually has to do 180 degree turn instead of just moving his wrist to left or right. That can make him a bit confused for a second, its even better if you time your blinks perfectly: blink behind him, when he's rotating blink back where you came from and one clip him.  
  
* **Painting around players**  
You need to work a bit on your tracking. Tracking is harder than flicking but after a while you should be able to land most of your shots. It still can be hard when everyone (including you) is moving but practice makes perfect! Also - learn how to pre-aim for baby Dva.
  
That's basically it. You need to start playing as a flanker, less like S76. I do like your gamesense, you know when to back off (like when your team is wiped, you just dont try to 1v5, sounds obvious but its not) You should be enemy squishies nightmare. Think of it like being a mosquito at night when they are comfy in their beds. If you can't kill them you'll distract them and/or make them slap their own faces ;) Distraction/keeping pressure on someone is just as good as fragging.  
I wanted to make a video review but shame you pasted part1 twice, also I don't think you'd understand my "Engrish".  
Good luck in S6!
I have limited experience here because I'm a support main but I am in master. Now that that's out of the way though I skimmed through the vid a little bit because I don't have time right this second to watch the whole thing but one tip I think can help you is to take more flank routes and focus on the backline because I saw you shooting the tanks a lot. Even if you can't kill the supports they're forced to either defend themselves or die and both choices are ideal for your team. If they focus on you then they aren't healing the team, if they die well then they aren't healing the team, no healing cripples the whole team and if both supports are dead then they need to regroup. Seeing as it's plat though they will most likely keep fighting and stagger themselves or wipe and be forced to regroup. Keep in mind because you're playing tracer if you do kill a support you can camp them at spawn too, iirc sinatraa does this so there's some tape you can watch to know what I mean, which again cripples the team and forces them to have to deal with you or be down a support. If they are running only 1 support then that makes your job even easier and makes spawn camping an even better idea. But again take this with a grain salt however I do have experience with being spawn camped and be constantly harassed since I play support lol, hope this help regardless and good luck.
Your tracer game is really good :D I'm not good enough myself to coach or give feedback but I noticed that both links goes to part 1 video and I can't find part 2 to watch :(
From what I've seen so far, the only thing I can currently tell you: Your tracking is quite OK, but you should really start working on hitting headshots now.

I think you've practiced hitting bodyshots more than enough, now aim a little higher and get more *dinks*. I don't have enough experience on Tracer to give any more advice apart from that ...
You're a little too impatient with your blinks. You need to watch who's watching you so that you can get into those sweet spots to kill supports. Work on your game sense. Your aim is good and your mechanics are very decent. It's all game sense from here. 
Similar to what /u/A_legal_alien mentioned; you're doing a pretty decent job outputting damage, and your ults are fairly effective. Overall, you're doing a fairly good job harassing without dying. My biggest issue is that their back line went pretty much uncontested in these links for the most part. The only time you ever really target their healers is when there is a big fight already happening and they are close to it.

Use flanking opportunities to your advantage. In high plat/low diamond, people tunnel extremely badly, and when a tracer is off the screen, people usually tend to keep doing what they were doing before you harasssed them. Very rarely do you get cohesive teamwork to target a good tracer, unless you're badly overextending without some other form of map pressure. Any harassment onto their healers makes them less effective at healing, more paranoid about where you are, and overall less coordinated with their team. But still a pretty solid first round that you linked.
What 2 others have said, stop the focus on the tanks (unless it's called out to focus them down). Hit that zen for an easy one clip. Bother Ana so she stops focusing on healing her team. Once one is out, your team should have the advantage. You looked pretty good overall. High plat/diamond looks about right to me.
More focus on headshots and one-clipping, also I would say you sometimes fire on your enemy too early leading to them seeing you before you get into really effective range. Personally I often run closer to not make the sound of blink and then empty my clip into them before they have time to react. (Like 4:21 part 1).

Get better at using recall when you take damage, you play a bit too reckless around their zenyatta sticking around with ~50hp and recall ready to use. Wait for recall to be ready, dive in try to get a kill then if you take damage fuck off straight away, not worth risk dying.

Also play more behind the enemy, harass the players going from their spawn to their team and use the packs there to stay alive, you can cut off reinforcements and poke them for annoyance and occasional one clip tries or bombs.
I'd say generally wait to fire until you're closer to people. For example at 4:22 you see a Zen alone, and you fire a clip from so far away you probably did like ~15 damage. All this really did was alert Zen to your position and intentions. If you instead blinked up to him and unloaded in his face before he even knew you were there it would have been more effective. You do this a few other times.

When a fight is broken out, feel free to spray from a distance and put out some damage. But if you see an opportunity to surprise someone, try to maximize the initial burst damage.
Which server do most of the people here play on. 
Thank you SO much for the comprehensive review. I love the criticism because it means I have a lot more to work on. I uploaded two more maps and fixed the part 2 of Ilios. Appreciate more feedback :) And feel free to use my videos for a video review - I also don't mind Engrish haha.
Spawn camping is a good point. I guess I never do it because in a high stakes environment like competitive, I saw that as a risk of just feeding by going too deep. I'll definitely keep this in mind - thanks!
Woops - updated =D Thanks for pointing it out. 
his aim is good. he needs to work on blink management, game sense, and positioning. 
I agree with that so much. I feel the need to blink as soon as enemies see me, which I think is starting to ruin my aim, because I am less patient with staying in spot for too long, causing me to rush and just spray bullets everywhere. What is a good time to blink?
Thanks for the tips, especially the reminder to not pre-fire which attracts attention. It's definitely a bad habit from 76 and other DPS roles. 
What do you mean? This was in an NA server 
Looking back at it I made it seem like a priority when it really isn't. It's a high risk high reward strat but it'd be a better idea to just do your best to be a pain in the ass of the squishies. 
When you're pressured by a real threat. 
Best of luck. :)

I appear to be stuck around high platinum, low diamond as a support main. Could there be something I'm missing to advance up?
I'm a Lucio main (can play Mercy if needed) with currently 2893 sr, and 3089 sr for a season high 8 hours played this season on PS4. Unfortunately I appear to be having trouble getting higher in sr for the past couple seasons, so I believe I'm stuck. I do feel I play better with a full group that knows what they're doing, but that's rare. Is there anything different I should do to get better and win more games? Maybe just practice more, or find groups? Without seeing some of your gameplay it's gonna be hard to give you advice on how to improve. But since you play on PS4 it's pretty easy for you to record your play and then post it to Youtube. Then you will be able to post links of your gameplay on this reddit so others can help you. 

I will end by suggesting that maybe you can try picking up Zenyatta. If played well, Zenyatta and his discords can wreck an enemy team. 
record your gameplay and post it here for a vod review. i'm not amazing or anything but i've been mid-high masters season 4,5 and 6 so i'd give you some advice if i saw some gameplay :) i play a lot of lucio, mercy and zenyatta.  

I was stuck in diamond for a while as a support main. And my tip to climbing is to just keep playing, try to get better like always.
I also recommend duoQ with someone who can play dps and tank well, this makes matchmaking feel less like rng because you have at least 1 good teamate. TrioQ also works, but I wouldn't recommend 4,5,6 stacking since it can lead to unbalanced matches...
I really recommend finding ppl to play with since it's next to impossible to carry as support, especially with dive comps being strong...
As someone who was a strict support main for s1-4(averaged where you are now, peaked at 3489), youre gonna have to learn 1 dps. Learn 1 DPS and master it harder than any other character, thats what helped me really settle into 3300 or so and thats around where I stay ( peaked 3670 s5)
I struggle with a lot of things at my elo. I used to be low Plat and I fell to silver slowly but steadily this season because my placements were fcked up by blizzard themselves.

The most problems that I am facing now, that I didn't face for the last two season are

Koreans. - no communication at all, can't even play around them cuz they keep changing heroes like they are trying on clothes at a mall.

Weird team comps - I don't know why we would go hanzo, widow, Mei, and sym when they have a good pharah and our widow hits butterflies. I stopped playing cree cuz of this reason and playing hog as I was told it was one of them heroes that I can have the most impact with.
You can try learning hog or zarya as they are self sufficient heroes who punish the enemy for making mistakes. 

As Lucio keep your speed on most of the time unless your heal is required to quickly save someone. Play him like an ambulance. 

Ana learn how to quick scope. Believe me that 0.5second matters.. (on scope her rifle becomes hitscan) 

Zenyatta discord important targets. (your dps having trouble killing pharmercy? Discord the pharah.!) 

Mercy I don't play so..... 


Lastly while playing supports try to play in a group, don't be a fool(me) and play soloq like me. A good dps or tank can do wonders with two or three people playing around them. 

I know you are of a higher elo but I hope this helps somewhat! Good luck. Peace out. 
I've actually been uloading videos ever since I started playing in October. Haha, here's the playlist for the newest: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL1Hie2IWhC2gnOkfwrJF2Yu9d4dujEZsW&disable_polymer=true
I also livestream sometimes.

I do quite decent with Zenyatta, I'll try playing him a little more.
Here's the beginning of me playing competitive more recently. https://youtu.be/3s4-YQVJbjk?t=52m34s Review away!
I'm actually LIVE right now if you like to observe. https://www.twitch.tv/spyrokid77666 If not, I'll be sure to stream more and upload them to YouTube. www.youtube.com/spyrokid77666
And don't let it be Junkrat... Junkrat is my only dps and thus leaves me alone to deal with pharmercy, since no-one else is good enough to do so
coming up as private for me.
I'll peep and leave feedback. I'm a masters support and tank main
Whoops, sorry, try again now?
Thanks guys :)
Yep, works now! Also, I approve of your name. Youre a true playstation OG
Haha, thank you very much! :) 

2695 SR Ana/Lucio VOD review request
Hi! Let me begin by saying that I don't know how to download a streamed video from Mixer. Here is the VOD: https://mixer.com/ArGM2015?vod=7779221

Thank you for taking the time to read.
FFA - You're Widowmaker and there's a Genji charging at you, how do you deal with him?
I've been playing a lot of Widow in FFA, and I can seem to always be in Top 4, and am pretty decent at getting most of my targets, except when it comes to Genji and Sym. I always lose that battle. A Genji will notice me and start to charge at me. I'll do some pop shots to get him to activate reflect, but it ends with ninja stars to the face, and a slash through my body and after turning around he last thing I see is his face going tsk tsk tsk. I always lose this battle. Is there a good strat besides avoiding? I can't help it, after getting killed by one I always constantly seek him out to see if I can get revenge. 

Either 1) Get a lucky headshot, 2) Be a widow god and get a intended headshot, 3) Emote and hope he goes away.
Step 1: throw venom mine next to you.    75 damage
Step 2 :body shot him once.                    120 damage
Step 3: hit one bullet (unscoped).           13 damage

Total damage done:                                 208 damage
Mine + SMG is enough to deal with a Genji who doesn't get a jump on you.
You can try to hit him while dashing (not as reliable, but his head hit box gets enormous), or what I do, which is grapple as high as I can. When he hits deflect, that gives you time to line up a shot. Genji widow is kind of a crapshoot either way, but it's doable. And what the other guy said about the mine and body shot is probably the most reliable 
I like to venom mine, bait reflect by scoping in, then when he dashes(they ALWAYS dash after reflect), I grapple on floor away from him and line up a shot. Hopefully either I get the hs or he triggered the mine, if you can at least land the bodyshot, smg him to victory or emote/spray after the *dink* if u landed it. Prepare for his salty return, and repeat.
grapple away, try to get in shot
1) Try to hit a shot before he uses the deflect

2) Put a venom mine near you if hes about to dash

3) Since no deflect, just use ur smg to kill him.

There is one trick you could try. A lot of genji's after noticing you will deflect, and soon after they will swift strike. If your cross hair was following/on him while he was deflecting just fire. More often than not it will be an instant hs as he is going right towards you, head first, if he is swift striking
Fight:


1)  Fire the charged shot, hopefully at least hitting the body.  It's unlikely he'll both time the deflect correctly AND be able to send it back at you, but it IS possible.  Still, it's worth the risk.


2)  Drop mine near the engagement


3)   Spray with Widow's Kiss while dodging and force him to trigger the mine or direct a moment's attention to kill it.

Flight:
GTFO with your grapple ASAP, preferably towards your team.
Plant a mine between you both but not too close to you and immediately find higher ground with your hook. Turn and snipe him until he dies or switch to alt fire if he gets to you.
I've tried to memorize the duration of Genjis deflect... Sometimes I can hit him right as it ends
You have a few options depending on distance. 

Here is what I normally do:
1. Spider mine where you are standing.
2. SMG fire him and try to bait the deflect.
3. While he is stuck in deflect grapple away.

Also maximize your grapple distance and prepare a rebound shot off of it. (I know it sounds obvious, but a grapple 3M to the left will be a pain to work with.)

If a Genji spots me across the map I'll either try to SMG or shoot light body shots and bait that deflect.

I'd also recommend playing other hit scans, and practicing on burst firing (if you haven't already) 

The key to this is movement and composure. 
Practice it no matter what. Trying to adapt to what the Genji is doing will usually screw you up. 

As far as fight a sym goes... good luck. 
She is a pain no matter who you use......
Or 4) Panic and shoot the ground. I get hesitant on headshotting a Genji cause too often they reflect it back into my head. 
good genjis wont let you bodyshot that easily and venom mine isnt a secure 75 damage either
Awesome, I was wondering about numbers. I didn't think of using the mine offensively so lll try that to see if I get a better result!
Thanks I didn't think to use the mine offensively. 
Thanks I'll try to grapple method. 
Ahh good idea for the venom mine. Didn't think of using as part of an offensive extension. Do you also hook further behind?
Yes this is the only way I've been catching them lately. To me it happens because I believe the Genji hesitates for a split second. 
What about at close range? I've been trying a method today which has been semi successful. Where the Genji deflects and I'll hook in the direction he came from and turn around and hit a headshot because he slashed   

As for symmetra, today I didn't have that much of a problem because she throws up the shield and I'll just aim up and end up headshotting her. Unless I notice that she has the benefit from shield gen in which case I'll run away. 
You can cancel your scope with a melee and just use your SMG afterwards to kill genji
good widows will land the shot

at the end of the day, you have to land your shots to win on widow
Venom min isn't guaranteed 75 if they get a health pack. Which, if they do, they're going to negate most, or all, of that damage as well as stopping it. Since OP is referencing FFA DM then health packs are literally the only way you're going to get healed as Genji. In which case Genji has to disengage from the fight and you've now won your space to either kill him as he runs off or reposition so you have a better chance upon his next engagement.

So in effect, either Venom Mine *is* guaranteed 75 damage or Genji runs off which is probably the more prefer situation if you are confident in winning that engagement.
Grapple jump kills are the most satisfying thing in the game, so it's doubly beneficial! 
As far forward as you can after he dashes. You can spin, scope and adad spam faster than he can cover the distance to reach you again. You'll probably still get shurikened in the head, but you'll get a second 80-100% shot. Miss that one and he deserves to kill you.

(oh the number of times i've missed that shot)
Usually i do.

When a genji is coming from the jump pad near the cliff and i'm on the top, i tend to hook myself farther away to get a better shot.
yes, this thread is prerty usless. its one of those git gud topics.
Least satisfying is the grapple jump shot into the drink. 
I'm going to try this method tonight. I'm hoping that I'll just get hit with swift strike but catch him on the other side. Do you know if you take more damage if you are already turned around? My hope is that as soon as swift strike is coming I can just spin and already be set up for the shot. I'm hoping this is a foolproof method. You should see my face after every time I try to time deflect and end up sniping myself. 
The baseline for Widow is sort of a get good issue but there are ways to fine tune your performance. Body shotting Genji is much easier than headshotting Genji. As long as you don't have utter shit for aim then landing a body shot is elementary-level-math easy.

If you do have shit for aim on Widow then your priority shouldn't be "how do I deal with this [niche] situation?" It should simply be practicing aim.
Really a whole lot of the help topics on here just boil down to "get better"
>Do you know if you take more damage if you are already turned around? 

No, but Widow's head is one of only a few that's plainly visible from any angle. 
I realize the get good. But the situation are usually at a closer range than a little further away. Genji at a distance I usually have no problem with, I'll catch them on the jumps or the wall climbs. 

My aim isn't improving..
Saw a few aim post here and remembered to post this. I play the game a lot, like Silver portrait 3 stars, but still, I cannot figure out why I've hit some horrible plateau. From lvl0 to 3/4 stars, it definitely was improving quite well, went from gold to plat to diamond using DPS. Around this time, I switched my sens, fell to mid-plat understandably, so I switch back after almost 50-100lvls. I climbed to 3k and I can't break 3.2k, it's like for the past two competitive seasons I've been stuck there because my mechanics are just flat out won't improve. I try concentrating on improvinh flicks, since my tracking is quite bad since I switched back, and it doesn't help. I even downloaded Aim Hero and am 10 hours in with not very much improvement for that amount of time. It's frustrating as McCree Genji main. Does anyone have any tips or ideas or something?Honestly, it's all practice and patience.

You have to see it like this:

It's pretty easy for a new runner to improve his time on the track in the beginning. Let's say he cut his time down from 10min to 8min in a rather short amount of time. He is motivated by the improvement, but now it starts getting harder and harder to feel improvement, because the things needed to get an even better time are very nuanced and demand more time investment and dedication.

He is still improving, but now the work needed to improve his time has doubled, while the actual improvement will only be half of what it was before.
There's a difference between passively improving and actively improving. It's true that you have a silver portrait and hundreds of hours played, but how much of that time was spent actively trying to improve? A lot of us play the game on autopilot and autopilot is the worst way to get better at a game.

If you want to continue improving, you're going to have to play games a lot more actively. Turn off the auto-pilot. Ask yourself what your weaknesses are. Then play games to address those weaknesses.

It sounds like you're already trying to do this using Aim Hero. So congratulations. I will also add that it is very likely your efforts are misguided. I think most players hit their mechanical plateau in gold. From gold all the way up to masters, it's more about learning strategy, game sense, and positioning. I suggest you play Overwatch with those in mind. Start tracking ults, who's alive on which team, and what your job in the next push is. What ults should your team commit to the next fight? Are you winning the fight or losing the fight? Focus more on the big picture rather than your inidividual mechanics.

Also, start recording and reviewing your own game play. You can often see the mistakes you make a lot clearer in hindsight.
Are you using reasonable settings. Find something you like then stop switching. Also is your gear reasonably competitive (good framerate, ect). 

Know that it really is a grind. I had 500h of deathmatch/bot practice on csgo. You will improve more from dm'ing/conscious exercise than grinding mm. 

You can't half ass the effort you put in when you are trying to improve. Let's say you are playing a typical mm game. you might get a certain accuracy % stat for the game. 

The next game you put a shock collar on that is going to zap you 5x everytime you lose. If your accuracy stat for that game is a signfiicant amount higher, you are not putting enough effort into your typical game. 

I'm guesing most of your game time is in comp/qp. Your aim is not going to improve nearly as much when playing the regular game mode in comparison to more deliberate aim practice. The frequency of the fights you are taking is too low. I would do Deathmatch, custom match bots, and aim hero. You can experiment with different approaches within the three.

In addition to out of match aimprac/deathmatching go into a match and try your heart out to aim sick, even if it requires an uncomfortable amount of focus to do so. Every shot even the ones that seem unimpactful you need to hit like it matters. Your goal is almost to aim above ur norm more so than win. Do that for 5 or so games with 5-10min in between q's. See if it makes any difference.

Although you will improve slightly from comp. Assume that any time spent playing comp is "fun" time and any time spent doing conscious practice is "work". You can devide up your play time from there however you see fit. Just don't try to DM 10h a day until you burn yourself out. The most I did back in my cs days was 3hours in a session and that was not typical. 


That's the answer you're looking for op, the effort needed to improve in a particular skill is always exponential
> I think most players hit their mechanical plateau in gold

what the fuck no

diamond, not gold

diamond is where everyone has no brain but a decent level of mechanical skill. after that you actually need to learn how to think about the game to get better

> Start tracking ults, who's alive on which team, and what your job in the next push is. What ults should your team commit to the next fight? Are you winning the fight or losing the fight? Focus more on the big picture rather than your inidividual mechanics.

this is good advice too, sure, but there's no reason to stop trying to improve your aim, particularly if you think it's a weakness of yours

Any way to FFA against friends on PS4?
Self explanatory. I have a few friends on PS4 I'd love to queue FFA against, just for a "who's better" type thing, wondering if there is any way outside of a custom match?All que at same time or custom are the only ways sadly
There's a good reason you can't queue for match-making ffa as a group - because it's so exploitable.

The mode is meant to be an everyone-for-themself affair, if you could go in as a group there'd be nothing to stop you playing as a team - not shooting each other and working together to shit all over the hapless randoms that made up the rest of the lobby. A group that did this would absolutely steamroll, it'd be completely unfair and ruin the game mode. It'd also be highly commonplace, due to a combo of a) people being dicks, b) you'd basically HAVE to do it yourselves to be able to compete.

If you want to play ffa with friends, use custom game, that's what it's there for.
What if you happen to be in different countries? Does queue at same time still apply?
It might due to low population but i have no idea 

How can I improve my aim with projectile-based heros?
I'm trying to get better at Zen/Pharah, but my aim always seems to be the problem. With Zen, one trick I learned to practice aim is shoot each orb individually. Try to predict where they're going to be and lead each shot. Try to hit every orb one at a time.
Try to predict where the enemy is going to be, especially with pharah.  Always try to shoot a little in front of where you think the enemy is going to be, depending on the angle your shooting from

What are the best and most in depth Genji guides out there?
I don't know what it is about this ninja cyborg but it feels like no matter how much i practice him i don't get better. Does anyone know of some quality Genji videos or write ups to help me learn? Preferribly by a pro or analyzing a pros gameplay. Thank you in advance for any help!Genji main here. I used to try to improve with pure guides. It doesn't work. 90% of the reason for my drastic improvement from being shite to carrying is because I practiced. Maybe 2 - 5% of it was guides. 

The only thing you need to know is with ulti. 

Normal ulti. 

If they're grouped up and your zarya can bubble you or you can get some other protection, dash into them, ult, dash into them again because the dash resets, and then slash. If they have a mercy, immediately dash to her after you get the second kill at least. 

If they're not grouped up, jump, dash into the air, jump again, then dash down to the nearest support, kill them, and continue. This should usually yield at least two kills. at least. 

Nanoblade: 

Slash, dash. Not much to say. Or dash slash. Usually if you know you're gonna get nanoed dash into the air, to make it easier for her. Make sure you can land a dash, otherwise everything falls apart. 

Those are the only tips you can get for Genji. If you want to dm me your gameplay and I'll try to find time to go over it during the weekends. 

Don't get disheartened if practice doesn't do everything. There comes a time for everyone where they suddenly click, and Genji feels so much easier. You'll have one good game, then have a few bad ones. You'll come back a week later and have another good game. You'll continue, until a month later you have a whole day of pure good games. Then the next day almost all your games are really bad. A couple days later you have 3 good games in a row. Then after a month or two of this your Genji goes click, and every game is good. It happens eventually. 
Become a Genji Pro:

Step 1) Get [almost] killed by your older brother. I mean, completely torn to shreds. 

Step 2) Get resurrected by hot German doctor who gives you a cybernetic body. She's gotta be like an angel though or this doesn't work.

Step 3) Train with robot monks in the mountains for some undetermined number of years. Meditating. Rebooting. Defragging. The whole sh'bang.

Step 4) Install hacks into your OS with auto tracking shurikan that are the size of your fist but fit in your wrist.

Step 5) Now you are a cyborg ninja capable of breaking the laws of physics but jumping off of mid air to complete the fabled double jump previously developed by the grand masters in the legendary Smash Bros arena.

After that there's nothing to it. Occasionally whip out your magic sword and whoop some non-cybernetic booty.

Seriously though...magic sword and robot hacks? I'm surprised he's not also part dragon....oh wait....
Watching some 10:00 clickbaited silver montages

/s
To add onto this, in the situation in which there is a mercy.
Dash into mercy + activate dragonblade,1 slash then dash to her guardian angel target, then slash again.

This is Zarya's season too – learn her!
Learn Zarya. Play Zarya. Barrier yourself and step into an enemy Junkrat's spam. ~~50~~ 40 charges. Barrier another frontline teammate (a barrier works with Rein's shield, by the way). Now ~~100~~ 80 charges. Melt anyone that gets close. Bomb anyone that's far away. Alternate the self/teammate barriers every 5 seconds to keep yourself topped off. Congratulations, you own a 48 foot radius around you, thanks to an auto-lock Junkrat.The maximum charge from a single bubble is 40.
>Alternate the self/teammate barriers every 5 seconds to keep yourself topped off

Debatable. This is good to do if you trust your teammates to not get themselves killed, or if you like to carry via DPS-Zarya.

Most advice I've seen recommends holding on to ally barrier for only 2 things: engaging and peeling.

**Engaging**

When your Rein wants to charge, when your Winston wants to dive in, when your DPS ally wants to ult ...you give them a barrier.

**Peeling**

You can essentially delete ally mistakes by saving ally barrier to peel for them. Ally gets pinned by Reinhardt? Ally gets caught in Junkrat trap? Ally gets flashbanged? Ally gets slept? Ally gets stuck with a Tracer bomb? Ally over-extends? 

---

That said, you can be proactive with barriers *in between* team fights (assuming you play at a rank high enough to group up at all before going into discrete team fights). But once the team is ready to fully engage, it's time to go back to saving your barriers for key moments.

And when your team has the momentum in a fight, you can be more liberal with using barrier to recharge your energy (keep the momentum). So for example, if you're in a 6v4 or even 5v4, you can probably start using barriers to recharge from 60 to 100 rather than playing cautiously. Playing aggressively is the best way to finish a team fight where you have an advantage.

---

>Bomb anyone that's far away.

You should also bomb people close to you in some cases.

* It can be a great way to finish off a low hp enemy.
* It's the most efficient way to utilize your weapon once it's under ~20 ammo.
* It's an ok way to tag (via splash damage) a mobile enemy that you can't quite track (like a Tracer).
Reload BEFORE ulting! 
If anyone wants to watch good zarya instructional vids, find the youtuber/redditor CANAS1AN and watch his vids. Got me from diamond to masters with a couple of bits of excellent advice. As someone that has Zarya as one of my very strongest heroes, I can't recommend his vids enough. I watched a fair few of her guides and his were the best :)

EDIT: Here's his first basic instructional vid and you can go from there to the advanced ones. Should note that this vid is old and she's been changed a little bit like her graviton, but I still think these vids are invaluable- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s7SopaDZxFk&t=3s
This is Zarya's season?  Of course, what I'm about to say is all anecdotal, but I feel the need to say it after reading this post.

I alternate bubbles to make sure I always have one on cooldown, I prioritize bubbling tanks and healers first and foremost and I don't bubble for the sake of bubbling.  I try to get teams to flank shields with me when necessary and I never push in too far unless it's to build initial charge at the start of a match.  

I've watched VODs of coaches critiquing high rank Zarya play to see what I can improve and have been able to easily incorporate those suggestions into my gameplay, some of which I mentioned above.  Consistently through placements I was high energy and not getting wrecked.  I fully realize I'm an off tank.  I work well with a Rein or Roadhog, even Winston.

Season 5, I climbed by approximately 700 SR (solo queue as Lucio) and that felt fair, as well (won a slight bit more than I lost.)  I usually played about 7-10 matches a week.

Season 6, I went 8-2 in placements (solo queue as Zarya) and placed 56 SR above where I did last season.  In many matches my personal performance was pretty good, sometimes golds, sometimes silver, 35 elims and 5 deaths, things like that.  Staying alive, managing her toolset well, never a burden to the team.  

What felt the best, though, was how well the people I played with and I were working together.  I thought to myself "I'm surprised placements went that well, and that's a fair result, close to where I was last season."  People were communicating and working hard, playing as a cohesive unit for pretty much all of those matches and it felt great, win or lose.

Since then, I have dropped 265 SR in a very short span of time.  People, unlike placements, now don't listen to comms.  People don't group up.  People feed like mad and if you make suggestions, they don't even bother to flame or be toxic, they just don't listen or respond.

I can say I'm not a bad player until I'm blue in the face and I honestly don't have the unrealistic expectation that people should just believe me carte blanche.

That said, I guess what I'm trying to relay is, Zarya is a tank you really have to work with.  Help keep her alive so she has high energy.  Stick by her side, group up, communicate when your shield is low so she can bubble at the right time (just before it breaks) or before you charge/jump in.  Let her body block for you when appropriate.  In my games, that has stopped happening after placements and people just run off and do their own thing, expecting it to all work out...  "this time it'll be different!"  

The hero you pick is only as viable as the team is willing to make them, especially in Zarya's case.  She doesn't really have a get out of jail free card like other tanks or dps heroes.  She's slow moving, bubble doesn't last that long, she can't just jump out, or charge away or rocket off somewhere.  She can't wraith like Reaper, sprint like Soldier, dash like Genji or blink like Tracer.

She needs you just as much as you need her.  She's super viable with the right team.  This isn't Zarya's season.  It's just a season.
I don't enjoy playing zarya personally. Believe me I tried but I guess I can stay a support main.
And when it's Zarya hour, it's always great time to Zen!

And...

you know...

Sombra.
As someone who (almost) exclusively played Zarya from bronze to 3K, yes. Especially now that every team has a newborn Junkrat main.
I know, right? 

---
As soon as the Junkrat's buff was announced, that was my first thought. And just got the golden weapon, to boot. 

---
If you manage to land RMBs on enemy clusters, the Graviton Surge comes up really fast. The downside is that you don't get POTGs, as it goes to the one that rains down hell upon those caught in it.

*Edit: Typo*
You forgot to add after you use your bubble reaper comes out of nowhere and shreds you in one of his clips


> Alternate the self/teammate barriers every 5 seconds to keep yourself topped off.

Other people have touched on this but this is bad advice.

Use your barrier to farm charge, but at least during team fights you should be saving the projected barrier for teammates that are about to be killed. It nullifies so many things, can cause people to burn ults or major abilities and so on.

Also even with your barrier try to make sure you are actually taking damage first before using your barrier to make sure you get max charge from it. 
I have started playing a bit of zarya. It's funny how people lock junk rat without a clue as to what to do with him.

I be like shoot the fking Russian. And they comply .

Followed by something like 'wtf that damage' when I kill them rats. 
At least for the first month, until people realize this:

Season 5 = Dive Meta

Last buffs where to = RoadHog, Junkrat, Orisa, WidowMaker (I think I'm forgetting someone).

Hog and Rat have an specific job to do: countering the Dive

What counters Junkrat? An well made death ball with speed boost.

When have we saw an Death Ball defore? Oh yeah, since Season 1, when junkrat was trow down to garbage until now.


Buff isn't Op, people just never gave respect for the hero, he is just the new shine thing that everybody wants to complain about
What do you mean it work with rein shield . Does that mean that the dmg the barrier blocks wil get you energy too 
She is great against junkrat... Unless you bubble too early- then, its game on ;).
I prefer using her self-barrier to gain charge, and using the projected barrier to save teammates from mistakes.

The team damage will be MUCH lower if you just spam your shield onto the other tank to maintain high charge compared to letting your DPS die to things like Hooks, Sleeps, Traps, etc.   It's especially useful to save that Genji who is getting a lot of kills (but also getting a little too confident) as he burns his reflect and is still in the line of fire.   I barrier him and say "Genji come on back now pal, if not for this barrier you'd have died and this fight would be lost"
What do you mean it works with Rein's shield? You gain charge if someone is shooting his shield while he has your barrier on him?
Keep an eye out on bubbling against DF right clicks.  It appears to interact with your barriers similar to Rein charges at times.  Most of the time the DF will hit your barrier and all is good but other times he will zip through it and hit a teammate behind you or your bud.

Also, DF right click is 4 sec cooldown so you can only block 50% if you were devoting yourself to countering him.  With the prevalence of Hog/Rein you have some decisions to make on which abilities to block (but also should have little problems sustaining high energy).  

Good luck to new and returning Zarya players out there this season.  She's always been my favorite.  If you play with a core group of friends she's a good tank to pick up as you're in a great spot to combo off each other.
As someone who plays a lot of Orisa, if the enemy team has an Orisa, you will be max charge the whole game, it is unavoidable, just time your dives till after you see her orb and you'll be fine
Don't forget mercy can no longer rez entire teams so grav will be extremely powerful
I'll edit.
Holy crap, I didn't know that. I thought it would just suck up anything you throw at it.
Agreed. Spamming barriers whenever they are up is a terrible way to play Zarya, you'll waste most of them.
My RES has a little underscore after your tag, I don't know why, and I thought your comment was at -32.

The whole time I'm reading it, I'm thinking... well apparently this is bad advice, but I'm so bad it is useful to me... I don't care what anyone thinks I'm gonna keep this in mind!

I finally got to the end and had to look one more time at how you could be at -32 before I figured it out.
I'm always scared to bubble a teammate who has overextended. I don't want them to be rewarded for a bad idea and continue to do it, but I also don't want them to die and put us all at a disadvantage. You can ask people to not do things over chat, but people will always want to play the hero u.u 

I think a lot of the miscommunication here is with the phrase over-extend. I've been in way too many games where one person goes so far ahead, I too have to over-extend, putting me out of place as well. If someone's stepping out to get pics or on their way back, of course I'll bubble! It's just especially on defense, I don't want to risk two players out of place and most likely dying. On attack though, I totally see the benefit of bubbling someone who is over extending. Personally, I play Zarya on defense more often than attack so I'm in the mindset of defending a point during a fight right now.  *
This guy knows the struggle
To be fair, sometimes opportunities present itself and you don't have the time to reload. I guess the trick is to stop shooting if you expect a great opportunity soon (eg. the d.va is demeched but they're not grouped up enough). 

Also, you shouldn't always use bombs into your ult. If your team doesn't have enough damage (eg. your dps are dead) but you're high charge, you can use beam to kill 1 guy in the grav and then get another one after it ends.
+1 to CANAS1AN; highly recommended
I've watched a few of his vids before, as well.  I should pick those up again.
You say how much SR you gain or lose, but what tier are you in? The way people play in different tiers can be very different. You might need different tips based on what tier you're in
You said you watched coaches critiquing high level zarya play. Can I get a link? That'd be awesome to watch 
As a zarya/zen main I do not like the dreaded S word
if im charged up on kings row i will get ult under a minute
>implying teammates actually target your gravs
Agreed, if you're getting good team fights charge will come naturally and will almost be an afterthought.
Take care with the Smart Rats, you will find one in each hundred. But this one will know how to bait your bubbles and even kill you super fast.
if you bubble a rein, the middle of him will extend beyond his shield. if enemies hit that you get charge.

generally when rein gets a bubble, he should go for some swings(sometimes even charge) because he will still cover a lot and its a lot of pressure on the enemey team, even better if they have a rein because hes basically forced to block. usually this will give you 40 charge.
The bubble sticks out of the shield a little
Yes, exactly that unless they aim to the outside edges of reins shield.
[removed]
You should also know that it only has 200 health!
This ^ is very important to remember when playing zarya.When you are above 40 charge only ever use your projected barrier to save/aid a teammate, never to solely farm charge.
TIL im a terrible Zarya

Edit: according to masteroverwatch I average 160 blocked per bubble and I spam it a lot
Oh I never noticed that before. I see it too even without RES. It's apparently part of my flair if you inspect the HTML. I'm guessing I joined this subreddit at a time when it had more flairs (now I don't see any except for "educator", "youtuber", etc). So I probably chose a flair that is no longer properly supported.
Part of playing Zarya at lower ranks is to turn your team's mistakes into small advantages for you. That guy is not magically going to turn into a great player just because you spent one match *not* bubbling him when he made mistakes. View it like this instead: When he makes a mistake and you try to save his ass with the bubble, it's a win/win for your team: Either you save him and he stays in the fight, or he dies anyway but *you* become more dangerous. If you're scared to bubble him, your team doesn't get that benefit.
It's not your job to make your teammates better players, their mistakes are purely their own. If they aren't willing to look at their own playstyle critically there is nothing you can do that will make them do that.
i don't want to be rude but this isn't a good mindset to have. it's the red teams job to punish your teammates mistakes, it's your job to prevent them

worst case - your teammate misplays and dies before the team fight starts, but you've got some extra charge because you bubbled. more charge = more damage = quicker grav. your overextending teammate probably farmed some ult as well. if they were truly overextended you'll likely be close to another projected barrier by the time the red team can push the 5v6 anyway

the most puzzling thing though is that you said you don't want them to be "rewarded" for overextending. a reward to me is grabbing an early pick or farming ult, both of which can be huge for your team. maybe im thinking too big and the "reward" is your teammate getting out alive, but why would that ever be a bad thing?
I debated on whether I should mention my tier, but, I'm in bronze :)  Highest I ever obtained was 2223 in Season 2 (gold) but only played a handful of games because I was mortified of playing comp at the time.  Season 3 I dropped down a ton, Season 4 I didn't play at all.

Started Season 5 at 700-ish, climbed to 1400.  After placements in season 6 I was 1456.  Now I'm 1191 and the drop shows no signs of stopping.  

The way people play in bronze is... interesting is the best way to put it.  They seem to think strategy is not required.  That communication is not required.  

I think those are the biggest drawbacks to that tier.  I think I have no choice but to 3-stack to get out of this.  Solo queue isn't going to work.  The game itself and Zarya are both highly team reliant.
Sure :)

This is the VOD I watched.  Some things I already knew but some it helped me think outside the way I play:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TG4aFX2VoUA&t=929s
In my elo it's one In a thousand. But ya when there is a smart one I swap tank with someone and pick pharah or cree.

Junk rat ult is strong though at the moment. Previously I would always get the rip Tyre if I was cree or 76 now it's tougher.

Long live rats. 
As a Ren ,I wouldn't charge upon receiving a bubble unless it's a short distance charge. By the time the charge starts the bubble is already almost gone ...
Huh, TIL.

Just to be clear, are you talking only about Junkrat's AOE shots or does this work if Solider is shooting Rein's shield?
Don't be mean. This wasn't a collection of tips, it was a reminder that Zarya counters Junkrat.
Yeah, I've seen people mention that just because Zarya has her shield up, doesn't mean you can't still focus her down. 
It can absorb 200 dmg over time or absorb and Infinite amount before it's destroyed but also destroying it. Like D.va bomb or junkrat tire. 
Trading extra top-off charge for a teammate's life later when he *needs* a bubble is a one-sided deal. 
There's damage and there's damage, though. 

* If you bubble yourself and run out into crossfire, you're "preventing" damage that you wouldn't have taken *anyway*. 

* A dancing Lucio is a lot easier to hit when he has a giant bubble. There are a lot of situations where people are shooting at him and he's not in real danger, but if you put a bubble on him, it absorbs a lot of damage. 

* If DVa is being tickled by Winston and has Orb of Harmony, preventing that damage probably doesn't matter. When Orisa's at full health with Fortify, she doesn't need you to save her from some piddling damage. Tanks kind of exist to take damage. If you can help them do their job better it's one thing, but if they didn't need the help, that's someone else's life you could have saved. 

Of course if you're in a poking sort of situation, and you judge that nobody's going to be in real danger for the next 8-10 seconds, then sure: get some energy however you can. 
It can work if you're games are just constant clusterfucks. 
I meant in the case that they've way over-extended to the point where I also have to over-extend in order to bubble them. I don't think that's worth it, especially on defense. If they've gone a bit forward to get a pick, sure I'll bubble them. But I'm not about to risk the team both a damage and tank player if someone's getting a little too cocky. 
Yeah honestly bronze was really bad in s5 (my first season in this game) but this season, at least more people are on voice coms. My problem that is probably holding me back is solo queueing too much which is not a good idea in bronze. If you want to duo or something, just pm (not sure if i can post info here)
i could see her being hard to play in bronze if youre not getting great heals, but if you manage your bubbles well shes very survivable. Just make sure you have cover to dip behind if you personal bubble isnt utilized. I will also say that it seems like you are wanting to rely on your team keeping you alive rather than working on getting better positioning/ ability usage. You can blame your team for not playing well and helping you out which is true sometimes definitely, but its just as likely there are many things you can fix yourself.
U a real one

The only hero where I can kill an Rip Tire is Junkrat, I just trow an mine at it and is 100% success rate.

But on others I'm at 0%
yes long charges are bad anyways but if you cordniate with zarya it can work out
both, any damage that hits more or less the middle of his shield gives zarya charge while bubble is on him.
She doesn't really counter him, she is buffed when he's on the enemy team. 
He wasn't that mean and he's right; this is a fairly low quality post.
you get punished very hard for not securing the kill tho
I love getting a BS stat like 10k damage blocked because i eat the same dva bomb twice with both my bubbles
No, that's not how it works. A Zarya shield has 200hp and it disappears after 2s.
I don't play junk rat at all so I don't know lol. Thanks for the tip. 
That's is pretty much all countering really is.....
Even so.
> This is a fairly low quality post

You mean your post?
His comment attempts to turn the conversation from the content of the original post to how he's better and more knowledgeable than OP. It's condescending, judgmental, and contributes nothing to the conversation.
I think you have a point.  A call to play a character followed by inaccurate representations of their basic mechanics isn't really something we need to coddle.
I envision that like the scene from the first Avengers movie where Thor zaps Iron Man and powers him to like 300%.
But it will take infinite damage, if that damage happens instantly, like with a Junkrat tire or D.Va self-destruct.
He's right.  Zaryas shield can block an infinite amount of damage in a burst as long as it has 1hp remaining.  Dva bombs,  junk tires,  rein charges,  etc. They all do 0 damage to zarya herself but destroy the shield
> Alternate the self/teammate barriers every 5 seconds to keep yourself topped off. Congratulations,

Countering is being able to turn an enemy's advantage into a disadvantage. A Widow counters Pharah Mercy because now they can't float in the sky and a head shot completely eliminates the advantage of Mercy healing. This advantage either lets you kill the enemy team or lets you take away their advantage.

When it comes to Zarya, she gains DPS from the Junkrat spam, so Junkrat can't spam, but in this case, he actually can just spam because the spam doesn't ensure that he dies. In fact, his new movement ability ensures that he can get out of her range. It also lets him kill her faster than she can kill him (at full charge) in the right circumstances. So she doesn't counter him. She "soft counters" him. 
Nah countering is when you can either reliably kill them, or you can reduce their effectiveness by making them need to chance their playstyle.
No it isn't lol. A good Junk shreds Zarya now, two mines.
Always remember that you're not allowed to be decent to people on the internet! 
Oh my bad, misread it. Yeah there is no overflow damage (like all other shields), if it has even 1hp it can block large amounts of instant damage
Thank you for that clear explanation of both scenarios. I understand now :)
And Junkrat needs to change up his playstyle or he feeds the Zarya charge for days.....
Thankfully it has already been explained very clearly and constructively so no need for more explanation
Internet rule number 1: always be an asshole.
Literally every shield in the game works like this - if an instance of damage destroys the shield, all the damage is absorbed (i.e. No shields in the game have overflow damage hit those behind the shield when the damage is from one source)
And charge by itself doesn't counter anybody.
SCREW YOU, BUDDY






^I've ^been ^practicing! 
Then why can deadeye kill you through a rein shield if it breaks the shield?
charge makes Zarya a force to be reckoned with. Ask any junk main if they change things up if they see a zarya if you don't believe me. 
No, but it makes things worse for your team. Even if Junkrat's extra mobility can get _him_ out of range, a high-charge Zarya melting his tanks and healers faster is gonna be a problem. Junkrat does best when he can take advantage of his teammates occupying enemy attention. They can't do that if they're dead/running away for health.
Because deadeye is not one instance of damage. If several enemies are hiding behind a rein shield that's low enough, some of you will get shot. 
If there are 3 people in the eyesight of a deadeye.. McCree will shoot 3x. 1 or 2 (I'm not sure) Will break the rein shield, then the 3rd will still get the 3rd target. 
Deadeye is multiple instances of damage (one instance per bullet), so if there are bullets left after the shield is broken, you can still die behind the shield

PC aiming issue -- getting too "into" it
I've noticed lately that at the beginning of a match I'm pretty calm and can track decently well with Soldier, for example. However, once the combat starts to get intense, and everything is frantic, I find myself tensing up. Both my arms get pretty tense, and my aiming becomes very jittery as a result. Any advice on how to avoid this?The only way to stop is to break the habbit.

My advice? Set a phone alarm every minute eventually this alarm will end up in the thick of it.
Detense when it goes off.

Itll be anoiying but it will break the habbit.
That tension is built out of the excitement and stress of the moment. You're letting yourself be overcome by those emotions and such. You need to stay calm and collected. Keep your mind in control of your actions in those situations. Overtime it will become second nature and you can let your mind worry about other things while your muscle memory takes control of your actions.

Like, /u/Roadhogsback stated, a good tip to follow is to have an alarm set to go off every so often. Maybe every minute, maybe every 30 seconds or 15 seconds. People who use this technique vary in their time frame regardless of how long they set the alarm, it's intention is to snap you out of that extreme focus and tension and force you to remember to stay calm. Pulling yourself out of the moment lets you remember the things you need to be doing.

You can use this technique for more than just relieving the stress and tension but to also help train yourself to be more aware. When the alarm sounds you can check your surroundings or kill feed or whatever area you need to improve on. 

Some people, instead of an alarm, have kind of trained themselves to snap their wrist with a rubber band (the band worn around the wrist of course). It can take a bit of training to remember to do it but the idea is to train your mind to be able to break away from the task at hand and put a little bit of processing to something outside of the immediate concern (like a team fight). This helps build awareness as well simply because it's taking your mind away from that tense focus and allows you to notice and recognize other things happening you wouldn't have before due to tunneling. 
I had this problem. I realized it's because I was so invested in trying to win when I played comp that I couldn't focus on the things I needed to improve on. So I tried very hard to pretend I was just in quick play and not worry about whether I was winning or losing as long as I was working on my aim. I stopped worrying about team comp and muted voice comms. If there were enemies in front of me I just made sure to put my crosshair over them before I shot and stayed calm so I could focus, and if I died it wasn't a big deal. I dropped a ton of SR but my aim improved very quickly and is now good even when I autopilot. Getting back the SR was pretty easy from there.

I forgot to add one thing. I didn't even realize that my aim got better until someone asked if I was a smurf because my aim is too good for bronze. At that point I was like wait actually yeah my aim is too good for bronze why am I here?
Take deep breaths too, it centers your mind and body. It's a difficult thing for me to remember to do even at work or anywhere
I honestly had this issue too and it was immediately alleviated by reducing my sensitivity. Which REALLY helped my aim too. I run 3.5 sens with 1000dpi
I use to have his problem and what i did was i started making mental note of when it was happening. Whenever it did I'd tell my self to calm down and relax. After a while it just became habit like and whenever I'm tense i notice it.
I take the anti-anxiety supplement herb called Ashwagandha. "Sensoril" type, 240 mg 30 mins before the game. Works like a charm for me.
Very thorough response, thank you! That alarm idea sounds interesting, I'll have to give it a go. 

Does Sombra not work in Mid-Gold?
I have an alt account in Mid-Gold that I dedicate to Sombra (I'm a high plat/diamond level Ana + Mercy player, but absolutely love Sombra). However, I find that she isn't a very good pick at this elo because my team doesn't know how to play with her. They won't use/play around health packs, so it's more of a self-heal and health pack denial thing. Follow ups on EMPs are iffy and don't work out as well (either they get picked so it's a 5v6, they won't target the key targets/same targets, they don't know how to act on EMPs unless paired with a Zarya ult, etc). Originally, I had the idea that I could climb myself out if I got good enough and it would make me an even better Sombra than normal in Plat, but I'm getting discouraged. Especially when I switched to a Tracer or Reaper on those games where Sombra's utility is being completely ignored, and I find myself going from Bronze (or silver) damage to heroes to Gold. I know that doesn't mean much, but it kind of speaks to me in terms of how much more of an impact solo-artist heroes do, especially when I'm able to take out the supports much more easily. I just enjoy Sombra more, especially her ability to team wipe more (love me those juicy 2CP maps for this). Do you think I should bare it out and keep with Sombra until I can climb out of that elo, or just use Mercy + Ana to get me to mid-plat ish range and continue with Sombra from there?I played Sombra on my alt account and climbed out of gold. The key is to not use EMP as an engagement tool. Use it when the two teams are already engaged and fighting.

Hacking important health packs and denying them to the enemy is already a good enough use. Don't expect your team to play around them, they won't even do that in diamond. But it's not that big of a deal if the healthpacks are already ones they want to use anyway.
Sombra is one of my mains and I recently used her to level up my wife's account. Just to see again the difference between low gold vs diamond. It was not to difficult strategy wise, but toxic wise is another story in EU.

- health packs. Don't expect your team to use it. Even in higher diamond people don't use them as often as you expect them to. This means you can use them yourself and more importantly: deny them to enemies. Go and hack one or two very offensive.

- EMP. Never use it to engage. Even if you shotcall and announce it. Majority won't be able to go in and capitalize from it. Until people start you already lost 3-4 seconds of it. Solution: use it during a fight that already started!

- hacking is the most difficult part for me. I usually try to hack tanks first and announce it. If that does not work i start to hack their healers and take them down. 

- translocator: its your get out of jail card. But it also is your 4 second blink to any fucking direction spell during a fight! You need to have the timings and its pattern memorized and you can throw it around like nothing. No need to look at where it goes. You know the trajectory by hearth. No need to look at the CDs you must know them. If you achieve that Sombra becomes a whole new beast.

Overall the most difficult part for me is the toxicity towards Sombra. So many people throw the moment they see Sombra or will always blame you - yet fail to acknowledge that maybe they might also be part of the problem.
She does but I wouldn't recommend it. Trust me, I've tried.
I'm in mid-gold and I went on an awesome tear as Orisa paired with Sombra.  Sombra would announce she was hacking the Rein or D.Va... and I would just blow them to pieces.
 I love sombra too. I dedicated 50 QP hours to her before testing the waters in comp. I agree with one of the top comments. It took me a long time to realize but people will not follow up on even the best initiating EMPs in gold (without grav). Do it just after one of your other team mates initiated the fight. If I see my team starting to commit ults to the fight, I drop that sweet sweet EMP like it's hot. They usually start to see the advantage of it and follow up better for the rest of the match. People in gold like an easy scapegoat to flame and Sombra is at the top of the list. I try to play her on maps that I feel the most confident with her (All 2CP, university oasis, ruins/lighthouse illios, control center lijang tower, Hollywood, Route 66 to name a few) I also try really hard to let my team know I'm trying my best by communicating hacks and politely asking tanks to use my hacked Megas when they are close to the fight. Hope you continue to get better! I'm sure you knew a lot of this but I've had the best results these strats :)  
She does not... unless you 3+ stack w people who have good gamesense.

Orrrrrr if you ask pregame if people count Sombra as a second healer, if they majority say no, bad plan, if they all say yes, you're probably good to go
I did the same thing as you and in the same SR brackets. My alt account I went sombra and realized the same thing. People don't react to her emp however many times I advertise it before using it. She's fun to play but not a good pick at all at this level.  Not sure what level works for her to be honest. 
The best tip I can give as a high Diamond Sombra main is to wait until your team ults to EMP to get the best effect without much effort from your team. Try to stay in the back line once you get ult.
You may be playing sombra more like a support at that rank but maybe switching your play style to hack the enemy and try to be in the enemy teams back line more rather than hacking health packs may benefit you. Try playing sombra almost like a tracer but very opportunistic at this elo
A lot of heroes that Sombra hard-counters are very popular in Gold - namely D.Va and Genji.   Just keep them hacked as much as humanly possible (even burning EMP to do so) and it'll be tough for your team to lose the fight.
Use her for more than just her EMP. Sombra can actually frag out if you have good tracking
Hi there. I climbed from Gold to Masters with Sombra. I'll be honest...I don't think I knew how to play her well until about 30 hours in and didn't feel like I had truly gotten a full grasp until about 100 hours in. She takes a lot of time to master.

That being said, you can absolutely team carry with her. In lower ranks, it's more about DPS rather than supporting, which changes a bit as you go higher up in rank. The biggest things you can do in Gold is get picks on supports and disable tanks. Zen and DVa should be easy kills and ult charge for you. Practice performing loops(using translocator to bail you out back to a hacked pack) to get picks, and then as you get more comfortable you can start holding onto your translocator and using it more for positioning.

If you want to play Sombra at higher ranks I would absolutely encourage you to keep playing her until you climb naturally rather than playing other heroes and then trying to switch. Mercy and Ana have zero skills that will translate into good Sombra play, so I would avoid that mindset.
Sombra is my most played hero (almost 90 hours), but I too noticed that nobody knows how to play with a Sombra on your team in Silver and Gold. I couldn't climb with her at all last season, and this season I switched to Mei after two games. I'm not sure what it's like in Platinum or Diamond, but I hear it doesn't get better for Sombra players.


&nbsp;

Ironically, 62 games later and 430 SR higher, playing Mei seems to have made me more competent at playing Sombra, so I'm thinking about trying it again.

&nbsp;

What I've noticed with Sombra is that your own team flees if you use EMP to engage the enemy team. I don't know why, but apparently it's very scary for them to follow up on. I used to hack people a lot, but that's not necessary at all. In fact, it's better to use it like Mei's primary fire. Eliminate people first, but if a target is too big or bothersome to take out on your own, hack/ freeze them so they can't get away or recover. Learning the exact timing to hack a Mercy is very important too. Hack her too early and she gets her rez off, hack her too late and she'll already have gotten her rez off.

&nbsp;

In the end I rarely hack anybody, using my EMP instead in teamfights while everyone is already engaged, or to quickly hack this Roadhog, Pharah, Mercy or Tracer so my team can help me take them out.

&nbsp;

Don't go on mad flanks, but stay close to the point/ payload. Preferably on it. Stay with your supports and tanks. If someone gets close, eliminate or hack them in that order. Hacking someone through a friendly Rein shield is great, although I usually spend my hacks on making sure the closest health packs stay hacked 24/7. Don't leave your translocator on a healthpack unless it's literally next to the point. Don't translocate out of a teamfight when you're on low health. Your team needs you right there, rely on your supports to keep you alive. You'll need your translocator to chase that Mercy down or to dodge that dVa/ Tracer/ Doomfist ult with your invincibility frames. Try your hardest to get those gold objective time and objective kills medals.
If you're a diamond level Ana player you should be able to shit on people in gold, with Sombra offensive capabilities alone.
You need to consistently identify opponents that are out of position and kill them reliably by yourself, otherwise, there is just no point in playing Sombra at diamond or below.
Paradoxically, I found Sombra to work quite well in lower ranks. The reason being is currently in gold, people don't seem to want to run 2 healers. Sometimes it's even poor Zenyatta solo healing. As a result, your health packs are excellent for providing sustain for your team and denying it for the enemy team. Same reason why Sombra is pretty good in qp, she just becomes the healer :') 
Oh god no
It's that he team will not be able to work with you.
I tried this once and every time I emp I'd just see the team there staining at all the hacked enemy's wondering when they will die
in lower ranks sombra needs to gets picks on her own otherwise its not that great because they wont take advantage of healthpacks or hacked targets
I had an alt that we threw games to get into bronze. (6stack of throwers don't worry. )

Currently the account is in platinum from sombra, Genji, and doomfist only. I believe it currently has a winrate of 91% on sombra. 

So I can confirm that you can climb out of gold with sombra. 
You need to improve your Sombra play instead of blaming your team.  You can't just hack health packs, throw out EMPs, and expect your team to carry you.  You have to frag, combo your ult, and hack important targets (Mercy w/ ult, main tanks) during fights.  The Sombra that spends the entire game running errands away from the team isn't very useful.
If it makes you feel any better I try to use Sombra health packs.  I'm in mid-gold.
Sombra can work in gold but you need a really good understanding of how you team thinks, faster than they do
Usually not. Whenever I play her nobody ever uses my health packs/does anything off my hacks and emps even if I call them out
Always blame the team. It could just be that you're not good enough to climb out of gold as a DPS either.
Well, you figured out by yourself...

Each elo have his own meta heroes. You can climb with anyone, of course. But if you pick the good ones you will probably spend at lease 75% less time.

Examples:

1. I was an Lúcio player that never got out of Silver, then I played Zeny, in 2 weeks I jumped to Diamond and on Diamond my Lúcio was so much more useful!

2. I have a friend that plays since the open beta, he is an Main One Trick Torbjörn since day 1, never played any other hero on comp! Be it on attack, defense or control, he is always the torb! He is a MONSTER! He just his all those shots with his gun, he kills winstons, tracers, genjis, pharahs, doomfists... But he plays torb on attack, and even being good, this means that he will have an freaking hard time. What this makes to him? Well he only got diamond NOW and I'm ensure you he can stand GM with his torb skills, but torb will never be good to atk an 2cp... (this without counting with the haters)
From experience, (gold here) Sombra isn't the ideal pick. As with Ana, she is both hard to play and hard to play with. 

---
Even yesterday, I told our Sombra she's a support and should consider building ult and use her EMP when I graviton, and not before.

Needless to say, he lashed out and said Sombra is a dps, and continued wasting his ults and dying in the enemy's backline.

---
I've started S6 as Ana, and I facepalmed myself so many times, because people do not know how to use the nano to benefit their own dps. 

---
I personally would recommend picking up Pharah, as Golds are terrible at handling flying units. A trio of Zarya-Mercy-Pharah combo is very hard to counter.
"Alt account in mid gold"
Lol
Oh, I'm going to try that now. I usually start the fight with EMPs, unless we have a Zarya.
Agree with this! At this level it is much more effective to hack healthpacks to deny them from the enemy than to support your own team
Sadly, I agree even at diamond people don't use or play around hacked health packs
To add onto this, Sombra is *not* a flanker but a DPS support. Try to have an ally nearby to bail you out of trouble when needed. If you cannot get out of gold, I can guarantee you your deaths are in the bottom 25%
> most difficult part for me is the toxicity towards Sombra. So many people throw the moment they see Sombra or will always blame you - yet fail to acknowledg

Yup...I've encountered them. But it hurts them more than me to be honest, because it's my alt account for practicing and not for climbing (my main is for that).

Thanks for some of the tips. I think I'll start EMPing after fights break out. I've been using it to initiate fights, but now I realize that this might not be the best idea anymore.

Secretly sad that D.Va is getting reworked/nerfed because she's so amazing to verse as Sombra. Not only can you demech her in oneclip (lots of ult charge), but then you can translocate after doing that and get your health back up for more ult charge. It's so nice.

I really enjoy her though and am not entirely sure what to do with this 2nd account that I wanted to dedicate to her because I feel like it's hit or miss if she does well in that elo (more often miss). I don't think I'm good enough to hard carry people neither, and I feel bad when I think I'm not contributing and ultimately making people who are trying to climb lose SR (even though I'm enjoying myself playing Sombra in comp and don't care too much about my SR rating).
Yeah, I've noticed that. I played Tracer a few times and just thought to myself how much easier games were AND how much less toxic people were towards you. Every game is my fault up until the point we win, no matter what happens. It's so silly and adds to the annoyance factor of playing her, despite how much fun she is (to me). 
Sorry, but I main Sombra and eat Genjus and D.vas for breakfast - imho heronly counters are Junkrat or a better Sombra.

Both are hacked as soon as they pop their def abilty and soon after that they are respawning.
I'm like borderline high plat to diamond. Maybe I should be able to, but I'm not. I guess that I should stick with it and keep playing to improve, but sometimes I get so discouraged T_T because I feel sort of useless. Maybe it's also the drilling into my head with people constantly yelling at me for picking Sombra.
I actually think that Gold is pretty good with getting 1-2 healers. I never seen a Zen solo healing yet.  In fact, some people tilt when you don't get 2-2-2, despite winning.
Yeah, I think I'll just stick with it. Maybe I need to improve my mechanics and game sense with her, which will make me even better than the average Sombra in Plat (once I hit it). I've just been very discouraged I think because of how difficult it has been lately (and teammates adding fuel to the fire with their nasty comments all the time). Part of me wants to just play my support mains this weekend and get my account to mid-plat and see if it works out any better. That way, if I fall, I know that it's all because of me. Especially since when I switch to Tracer, I instantly do a lot of work (or reaper for just peeling the problematic Winstons off my backline) and think to myself that I could probably get to Plat no problem (~a weeks time if I have free time) just playing Tracer. Problem is I love Sombra too much and don't want to do that.
Yeah, I'm going to take more advice that people gave me and see if it works out better. 
It could be. I try not to blame the team because I managed to climb super fast by always looking at myself (low 1400s => mid 2900s in 1 season). You could be right though. I could just be a trash DPS. I only really enjoy Tracer and Sombra. Although I do work with Tracer, especially on koth maps, at this elo, I definately remember games where I felt like dead weight.
Attack Torb on 2CP is good for a very specific purpose, which is stopping stall, the turret is so much faster at engaging and cleaning up stall trickle than most people are, however Torb isn't as good as most other picks at getting to that game state.
Technically, she is in the offensive category. Though most see her as a pseudo-support.

If I was on your team, I would EMP before you launch your Grav. But I'll still give a count down to when I deploy. This is largely due to the buff Zarya has with her Grav that nullifies any escape abilities any enemy unlucky enough to enter it's event horizon. An exception I would make is if Lucio is in your target and has Drop the Beat ready since I can go in after he gets stuck in the event horizon and uses his ult. I come in and EMP his temp shields away. Prior to her Buff, I would EMP at the same time you used your Grav.

Most of the time, you'll see me targeting their tanks and healers and will telelocate out when things get hairy (I suspect this Sombra player you encountered does not use her telelocator wisely).

The Sombra player you've encountered just makes me want to shake my head for giving Sombra mains a bad name.

I actually find Ana to be fairly strong in Gold. When I played Ana on this account, I just destroyed stuff. It's easier to protect yourself compared to Mercy (sleep/kill people who are after me) and Anti-heal people who are half or below (to secure kills easier, before Mercy can heal them up).
Did your post accomplish anything towards answering my question? Did it make you look like a helpful person (or the opposite)? Maybe you should read the entire post and try putting your input, if you are actually in a position to do so, instead of polluting this sub with (more) toxic comments. Thank you.
I'm almost plat and have risen through gold with sombra. Her ult is definitely a button to make your team run back towards your spawn for 6 seconds. Even if everyone is together and I count it down. I've also been getting hate more when we win then lose now it's weird. "Sombra why'd you solo ult?" "I got the mercy flying in for the rez and won us the game..."
Fitzy did a silver-GM series, so sombra should work in all levels.
Uhh, I'm not sure I agree with this. Sombra can play as a flanker and can easily harass an enemy's backline repeatedly and consistently. She also wants to push forward to hack enemy healthpacks.

And if Sombra is in trouble she doesn't need an ally to bail her out, she can translocate out of danger. She should never find herself in a situation where her translocator won't save her.
I'm bummed because she'll be less of a Zarya chewtoy, though I suppose the missiles could be good shield-bait.
I can't disagree with that!
Well, you could duo w me and get me out of silver. I know how to play w Sombra (diamond console, just suck at PC), I play tank and healer, so I could tank only routes where packs are hacked.

Or just duo+ w people that would like to climb, and tell them you will only be playing Sombra, and to learn how to play w her as a healer
Playing Sombra on my alt at 2700 works great, 60% winrate so far this season.  Playing on my main that placed in Gold, lose lose lose lose lose.  I don't get it.
I main her too and even get shit from the blues if we win, the struggle is real.
Reread my post.  I said that sombra counters those two. 
It's fine OP. Original commenter isn't necessarily right. A master level support player doesn't mean that they're a master level DPS player too and Sombra isn't known for dealing a massive amount of damage. Additionally the difference between plat and gold isn't huge so it shouldn't be expected for you to carry and shit on people. 
You can always test this. I know sombra is very team coordination reliant (I don't play her myself), but maybe try playing a few games with voice chat/text chat off and just see if you feel you're playing better relying on just reading your team's movements. At gold level, team coordination is probably a pretty iffy thing anyways, even if everyone's in voice chat. Up to you whether you want to do this, but it might be worth a try if you're really dealing with that much hate playing her. Had to do this myself, and I've been doing much better now that I'm not listening to the chronic hate in voice chat (I'm silver rank and play a lot of off meta heroes).

Edit: Just FYI, as a Junkrat player, I absolutely love when there's a sombra on my team. I usually stake out one of their heath packs and farm it, since healers at my level rarely like to heal Junkrats. (I've literally had my healers tell me I wouldn't be getting heals because I was playing JR. It sucked.)
You're lucky! I play in masters and gm where we frequently get 2 healers, and when I was being a backseat gamer for when my brother visited me, I was really shocked at how often he would be forced to play Zenyatta all by himself. He would then get flamed obviously because people are lovely. He plays in gold/plat. Possibly related to the time we play Overwatch and some other factors. But if you consistently get balanced comps, great! That's half the battle.. 
Maybe with a duo queue, it works. 
But soloQ is a nightmare, as players aren't all confident in playing their hero of choice. 

---
Duo queue has been fruitful lately; Zarya/Zen and Zarya/Orisa. Just need the dps to be able to shoot a vehicle-size target when I grav them.
I used to do that in S5. But now I find it infuriating when Rein doesn't charge that sleeping target, or when a dps decides to wake up a Raging Winston.

With Zarya, it's fool-proof, as I can also do massive damage. It's literally shoot the big pile of enemies. Can't miss.
Well ofc fitzy can climb out of gold on sombra 
The thing though is that Fitzy is an insanely good Sombra. He can hard carry that elo because he has top 500 status mechanics, game sense, etc. Most people don't. I especially do not. He could carry Gold games playing whatever because of all that. I don't take him as a good  marker for what can and can't be done. Yes, he shows that it is possible. But what I am saying is that, I feel useless and at times very bad for picking Sombra because of it (mostly because people don't capitalize on stuff I'm doing and I guess I play her more for utility than DPS, since I am a support main). However, when I switch to Tracer, I feel like I'm doing work and think that I could get to Plat with not much of an issue if I stick with her...but I want to do Sombra. This paired with the insane hate I get for picking Sombra just has put me in a very discouraged mindset.
That's not really a good comparison. Few of us are at his level. Just because one person can do it doesn't mean everyone else can. 
I agree with harassing but she doesn't execute flanking on the level of say Reaper, Tracer, and Genji. 
you sir, I challenge you to a duel! *slaps with glove*
This is my experience too. I've played her a couple times in 2900s and felt like I was doing great, granted it wasn't enough of a sample size (can only remember 3 games as her tbh). However, when I strictly play her in Gold, I feel like I can't have as much of an impact as I want. Maybe it's because I rely more on her utility to bring for the team, but I feel like my Tracer does decent work...who knows.

Debating boosting my account up to mid-high plat this weekend by playing my mains and seeing how I fair. If I fall, I fall..and then I'll know for sure that it is my fault.
Well they had to "carry" you (even if they were all on your back)...
ohhhhh, the other way around - now i see :D
People always wake up sleeping targets, no matter the Elo. Yes, it happens less...but people are human and mistakes happen. It doesn't magically stop because you hit x rank. Get that out of your head.

Also, sometimes Reins charging in is not the best idea. I've had nano'ed Reins die before because they took it as "go full ham". If someone plays Rein often enough, they'll probably know (better than you if you don't)  the limitations. Trust them. Use Nano more reactively in this elo. Roadhog began ulting? Use your ult. Your Genji not have ult but is deep in the enemy team doing work? Use your ult (it actually helps him charge his ult quicker too, not die AND do more damage). etc. 

I think you can literally carry yourself out of Gold just by having good positioning and decent aim as Ana. I find that people have trouble getting to me and when they do, I'm usually near a health pack so they can't kill me quickly (nade+health pack+sleep dart). This makes them waste a lot of time and resources and get discouraged at trying to kill me as the match progresses (in gold) after a couple unsuccessful attempts.
Hide chat and don't join voice chat. It did wonders for my winrate. I always read back what people type in the chat after a game, and it gradually got less and less toxic as my winrate increased and stabilised at around 65%. The past 10 games they didn't even ask me to switch anymore.
it means if ur good enough you can climb, doesnt matter what league you are. Theres no such thing as x character is specifically bad in this league
Yeah I'm thinking I'm going to stick with Tracer and Pharah to get my main back up to plat at least.  Sombra seems too reliant on other DPS and coordination to work well at lower tiers.
You're are correct. However, the lower you go, the harder it is to integrate certain characters. Sombra requires an immense amount of teamwork to reach her full potential, and at Gold and below that is incredibly difficult to do. 
I think people really overstate the amount of teamwork that is required to play well with Sombra. I guess people assume they must engage with EMP, and they do the countdown before a fight and no one follows up.

Fitzy does this on his stream a lot, and even in GM, he will do it too soon and his team can't capitalize even if they wanted to. Especially for lower SR players, *just wait*! If you see your team actively engaging into a fight, *then* EMP. It requires no insane coordination.

This way still works and you'll actually get the full 6 seconds of hack time to be meaningful. Half of it won't be wasted as your team gets their shit together.

As for teams playing around hacked healthpacks, it's just not that important. As long as Sombra is hacking important healthpacks that deny the enemy team them and leave them ready in the off chance your team needs them, that's good enough.

This is why Sombra is mediocre on first point Numbani. None of the healthpacks are in a position to really be used naturally by your team during the fight. But first point Volskaya is amazing because the healthpacks are basically right on the point. They are going to be used no matter what.

The hardest part about ranking up with Sombra at a lower SR is her mechanics. Being able to have consistently good tracking and diving around the enemy team with her translocator and stealth will be a more limiting factor than having your team play around you as Sombra.


I can't aim under pressure, how do I fix that?
A deathmatch FFA game just brought that point home painfully. I can't hit anything when I'm being shot at/attacked in any way in this game. I've died many times because of this and it made me tilt a lot in the past, which made my aim even worse.

When I have a clear line of sight and a second to aim, I can headshot left right and center, but as soon as I get focused I'm dead. I'm just dead, because I can't hit anything anymore. My arm tenses up, I flail all over the place and that's it for me. Doesn't matter if it's a Pharah shooting at me, a Junkrat flying towards me or a Genji throwing ninja stars, my arm suddenly gets the dexterity of a piece of rebar and I'm dead seconds after.

Does anyone have tips to solve this issue?Repetition.  If you're panicking under pressure you're going to have to get more comfortable being under fire.  
Do some more death match and dont worry about dying. Don't stress about getting hit and just focus on getting a shot or two off before you die.  Get more comfortable with being in those tight quarters fights and get practiced on taking those shots. Don't rush the shots.  The military mantra of slow is smooth and smooth is fast applies for taking shots in overwatch. 
Practice and accept that you will get hit and you will die. Once you aren't stressed about getting killed you can work on developing the repetitive skills to deal with those fights. 
You need to develop close quarters skills until they are reflexive so you can fall back on your skills rather then trying to 'rise to the occasion'. 
I found playing with a low sensitivity helped me to not get so tense. Or that it has less effect on performance, since small variations affect it less.
Don't pressure yourself. If you are up against a soldier or mcree just try to adad strafe so they can't hit you but don't think too hard on that. Just do it unconsciously. If up against a pharah or junk, try to avoid her rocket or pills and keep shooting. 
I don't know what heroes you typically play, but I have a bit of this problem as well. I'm a Junkrat player, so it's not really my aim per say, but I panic when things get too close to me, and start making really stupid mistakes. I've recently been playing deathmatch with my concussion mine disabled (unbound the button), meaning I can't escape or run away (or panic-hurl it toward the enemy and hope it hits). My concussion mine is basically my oh-shit button. Without it I'm stuck on the ground, stationary, can't escape from danger and I die a lot. But it's helped me stop panicking in those situations, because it made me accept that my death was pretty much inevitable. My only goal was to hit the enemy (not even kill them, just hit them) before I die. It's done wonders for my in-game performance. 

If you've got abilities or habits that your relying on for those oh-shit moments when something rushes you, try disabling them. Try deliberately putting yourself into the situations you don't like. Also try getting the jump on the enemy first at close range. If you see them from a distance, instead of taking the shot you normally would at longer range, push in on them and initial the close range fight yourself, on your terms. It should give you some practice at close range fighting, while also making it so you feel more in control of the situation.

Hope that helps, and good luck!
Another thing I found: Fighting a Genji almost always tilts me instantly, because I can't hit him for the life of me. His constant jumping and dashing around is so irritating, I get a kill on him in maybe 5-10% of the fights I have with him when I'm playing anything hitscan. (The Genji player then calling me a noob, spamming "Aho ga?" which means "Are you an idiot?" in English and taunting me doesn't really help either)
This is probably what's actually going to help me. The best shots I get when I'm not worried I'll die if I don't hit.
I'm fairly comfortable with my sensitivity, I'm at 950 dpi and 3.85 ingame sensitivity. I don't think it's a hardware or software related problem at all, it's my brain screwing me over.
Thing is, Junkrat now has 2 concussion mines so he uses one to blast himself towards me, I tense up, he blows me up with the second one, I still can't hit him and then I die.
In that case my only recommendation is practice or some sort of plant matter inhalation. 
Go play 50 DM games 

Which is better for McCree? Higher or lower sensitivity?
Not sure if I should make my sensitivity higher or lower for mcree because having higher sensitivity gives you more room to flick around and get flankers but lower sensitivity will make you more accurate.
Ultimately it's what ever you feel comfortable with. That being said, it's generally agreed upon that lower sensitivity is better providing you have the desk/mousepad space to be able to swing your arm and turn quickly to get those wider flicks and quick turns.
sayaplayer uses 1000 dpi and 5 and i feel like his mccree is the most accurate, but in general lower is more accurate. Middle ground is prob best overall, like 800 dpi and 5 sens.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TpvziBnnYG4&t=76s
i use 800 dpi/ 4.2 sens, feels like a good balance between small adjustments and flicks. lots of people use lower, i think i'm on the high end of the spectrum
Go into Practice Range, strafe around the still bots right outside spawn trying to keep the crosshair on their eye. Lower if you're overshooting and raise if you're undershooting. Find a sensitivity that lets you keep easily comfortably on their eye and stick with that forever. 
Problem is, I don't have enough space to turn quickly without my mouse flying off my mousepad and I can't get a new mousepad so what should I do?
800dpi/ 4.5 sens here.
If you're limited on space then your best option is probably to use higher sensitivity. You may lower it as low as you can go and still feel comfortable with your movement in the given space you have. But I can't say how low that is.
Is it a monetary issue or a space issue, in regards to a new mousepad? There are some good ~$10-20 dollar mousepads I can point you towards if you like.
Well seems like you just answered your question 
Alright thanks.
Space issue, I can't go redesigning a whole desk because of a mousepad
If you have time, watch some of Ryujehongs videos, especially with the hand/mouse cam. He uses really low sens but can still aim well, you might want to mimic his technique.

Wrist aiming is fine too. I think Iddqd does this as Mccree and hes pretty good.
I will warn against wrist aimming, while the technique is a fine way of aiming, it is also a good way to give yourself carpal tunnel down the line. 

Disclaimer: im not a biologist and dont know if this 100% true, however it is what a few hours of research has lead me to conclude.
Correct. Hence why arm aiming generally recommended. If you see yourself fps gaming for a long time, consider getting a new desk to accomodate arm aiming.

How to train non aimintense heroes
Hey

As the title says, how do you train Heroes like Reinhardt or Mercy?

I like to play Reinhardt. I don't die too much, think Block good damage (and have often gold in eles or dmg, which I don't consider as good, just as a plus), I much more outplay the enemy Rein then he outplays me. still ranking down right now (from 2800 to 2500). Which is frustrating

The one thing I plan is to record my games. But other then that what can I do?

Coming from Starcraft: I always know what I needed to do to get better. Like focus on Macro. Once Macro works fine (and automatic) focus on scouting (When to scout, what to scout, how to react), one this works good focus on micro more while still keeping up the macro.

In Overwatch all I know to train is aim and positioning.Ex S4 Masters Rein main here. Unfortunately with Tanks, the only way to learn how to play them is through experience. Tanks require some kind of 'instinct' that develops over time. Basically your goal as tank is to force the other team to respect the ground you hold to create space for the rest of your team to do their roles. With Rein this involves knowing when to be aggressive, when to charge, when to retreat, when to go HAM, when to expect enemy rein shatters and general shield usage vs different types of enemies. You simply can't note how to do these down, you must basically build experience in how to do it yourself. Note you really should play Rein in comp where people are actually willing to work with you most of the time, Rein is very useless solo.

If you have gold elims/dmg as Rein, thats not necessarily a good thing. It may mean you are too focused on fighting rather than using your shield. This may mean the rest of the team isn't able to perform their roles efficiently. It can be frustrating sometimes just pressing M2 for the majority of the game and having the fight drawn out longer than if you just jumped in yourself and go HAM but what matters is that you win the fight with minimal losses as it enables steamrolls and superior positioning for the next fight.

For Mercy, I've never really played her due to how boring she is currently. Don't bother learning her now though, shes about to be majorly reworked. Once the changes come through then go ahead and try pick her up.
there is something I like to do with Mercy: 

Comment my gameplay
Like, I play and when I do something, I tell myself why I do that and not something else. 
That makes me play horribly, but it really helps to avoid autopiloting AND it makes me think about the things I do before I do them. 

I also like to train movements with her. Just slip of a ledge, fly back up, slip, fly, circle a little and so on. 

And watch my own VODs. Ask myself what the heck I was doing AND pick out habits I have. 
You don't need to. These heroes come down to intelligence, you ability to see a situation and know what needs to be done. Experience will also help, granted you're learning.

As with other heroes, part of playing them is knowing when to switch too. 
Most of these aimless heroes have their own internal strategies which you just have to pickup through game play. But you can be attentive to the learning process to try and improve faster. 


The other thing that you can try and train yourself on is hero countering and map sense. 


Especially with the tanks like Rein. 
There are little changes you have to adjust for depending on which heroes the enemy is fielding against you. Which ones to push in on, which ones to take more cover around, adjusting shield position to watch the high-ground, etc. some heroes tend to move in different ways (tracer, junkrat, mercy) so predicting your firestrikes and when to take a cheep swing on them varies because they move differently.  

As Rein you will tend to dictate how and where your team moves and attacks from and which ground they are going to claim as yours. Some places are better then others and it's worth looking over the maps and being Mindful about which spots work better and which work poorly. Be mindful of where you are leading your team and which spots work better.   
This will be rank and team comp dependent.  Don't take the high ground with Sym and reaper on your team and things like that. 
Think about who you are trying to protect with your shield when you're using it. Are you blocking for your backline so they aren't getting picked so you stand fast while your flanks go past you or are you running a sword and shield type strategy where you block for your close quarter fighters and pivot or push and withdraw. 
With your shield up you have the time to think about your goals of any given fight. And where to go next. Do you need to push the payload from the front or back, do you hold or fall back when they dive. 
>For Mercy, I've never really played her due to how boring she is currently.

I understand this sentiment, entirely. But I respectfully disagree. I don't think she's boring, unless she's played like a dainty winged fountain of just healing and then hiding like a moth at 100% ult charge for a resurrect. I think it's probably because I learned to love Mercy's **pistol**. It's nuts how many mercy 'mains' don't event regularly swap weapons. It's nuts how many people I've played with who don't remember the button/key they've mapped to switch weps or sometimes don't even have it mapped. Her pistol is baller. I didn't get Mercys gold weapon for the staff.. (although the broom is awesome, it's only skin I don't have for her :( ) I spent the CP for the pistol. It does quite a bit of damage if you can aim for headshots consistently. 

There's nothing like knowing the enemy Mcree is going to microwave his game disc now because you just 1 v 1'd  him *through* a stun, roll, and fan the hammer - - and won. Her pistol also gives a good amount of ultimate charge. There's many a time when, my team gets wiped and I'm close to Rez but don't have it. I'll  just fly in and go Ham, while button mashing ult, and get enough to get the rez. I find it especially rewarding if a team member doesn't have kill cams enabled... they see you pull the entire thing off. Played right, she's not boring at all. I think the worst part about mercy was how much a game could pivot solely on *her* actions/decisions. It's a lot of pressure.. On a one person.. In a 6 man team.. mercys get their fair share of hate messages for missing crucial plays.. I know I have. 

That's why I'm excited for her changes. Traditional - hide and heal, fly in and Rez Mercy mains may panic because their bread and butter is being thrown out the window.. But that definitely is boring. 

It irks me to see a mercy POTG where after rezzing her team, she just latches onto a teammate and heals them.. Or flies away. Lady. You are a *battle* angel. Pull that pistol out and show them that *The Doctor, is IN*. 


Obviously the ult is gonna be way different, but I don't think the rework negates practicing with Mercy right now. You can play her current rez like a single-target one, or at least be thinking about which person would be most important in a multi-rez.

I personally have had a hard time practicing tanks in QP, but I went on a stretch of only picking Lucio (control maps), Mercy (defense), or Ana (attack) in QP, regardless of comp, unless someone had already picked my choice or there were already two healers. It was _super_ frustrating, because people trickled, didn't protect me, etc. I frequently took breaks to go play mystery heroes. However, I feel like I really learned a lot during that week. I stayed out of comms so I could focus on mechanics and tactical skill, and because I couldn't rely on anybody to help me (or even ask for help), I had to pay attention to what was happening and adjust my positioning if I didn't want to get killed.

It was during this time that being slippery with Guardian Angel finally clicked for me, as well as using flying teammates to get out of the way (without getting _totally_ disoriented), and retreating _toward_ my team instead of backwards. I also vastly improved my sleep dart accuracy and target selection and got significantly better at escaping from flankers.

Obviously, playing healer is better when your team is paying attention to you, but I think I got a lot out of forcing myself to be self-sufficient. 
Oh hey, I found a twin!

I do those movements too! At first it was just during downtime, waiting for the round to start while setting up, etc. Just a little game of flit away '*o noes I'm falling off the gas station*' and then fly back in after doing a little twist '*j/k I still here*'. 

Anyways, this reminds me of a somethjng that happened to me. Because as time went on, I found that I naturally flexed that muscle memory of that little game, into my skill set. Early last season we were on defense at Eichenwald and it was the enemy's final gasp OT push across the bridge to the Huge doors.  

I mean just the description itself, pretty much screams 'engagement'. My team was grouped at the payload and contesting some enemies trying to push and we all new that each team had pretty much a full stack of Ults to use. We just didn't want to go first. 

It started when my Soldier decided it was time, popped his visor and got *maybe* a Sombra but also missed hearing the D.Va... flank from castle left, boost, and pop her nuke, nice and neatly above my team's head.

 Normally I would have either tried to run - to survive it (for th3 r3z), or would have tried to fly to the soldier (and died in the resulting nuclear explosion). Instead - I leapt off the bridge like a cocky bastrard... *because of that game I play*and glided juuuuuust below the blast threshold to survive it! I knew the solder would survive on high ground so I look up to GA to him.. Cause... You know.. Like everyone and their llama is asking.. 'yo. Mercy. Can you rez that?' and since I have to go save the gameaaaaaand he's out of range. Fuck. Me. 


Wings out so I'm slowly gliding, I appeal to the soldier's heroic past. 

"Soldier. Jump of that castle down to me now." 

No immediate response. He's running around, firing some shots... No comms and *certainly* no Tac Visor Either... So it's not like he's mopping up or cleaning house up there and wiping the enemy team for us.. 

"Soldier, jump of the castle *now! * or we lose the game man..."

Not a sliver of self sacrifice. But! Apparently he was trying to 1v1 a  Lucio up there during this whole thing, and promptly got
booped. (Our soldier was silent all game, but he was good. He had been tearing the enemies up there from high ground and they never contested his space effectively). They just pushed on bridge inch by inch until over time - - until along came a Lucio who decided he was going to do something about it. 

Booped soldier falls down, I GA to him as he's falling (I swear I ran the wave emote in my head, but almost shit a brick because if I fucked this up now because I waved as he was falling...) Anyways. I get enough clearance from GAing to soldier to see a 'death timer' (or whatever they're called) for my Rein.. and GA in and get a 3 man rez (I missed my roadhog but this was when he was nerfed so I wasn't to heartbroken about it). Everyone I rezzed had Ults. Wham. Bam. Thank you ~~Ma'am~~ Lucio. 

Game won. And I jump off the bridge to join silent soldier Bae. 
I was in a game last night where the Mercy got POTG by unloading a clip into Orisa's ult-bongo, a second into her moon-sized head to finish her off, and then zipped over to the team for a double res.
Yeah, fair enough. I come from a TF2 background and already have a lot of battle healer experience and didnt like it. I personally just dont like the concept of being forced to rely on teammates for self defense and if your ability to make plays involves hiding or pocketing someone. To be honest when you compare the Medic to Mercy, the Medic has the tools for self defense and is expected to use them to make him somewhat less boring, but with Mercy in her current state, I feel like its throwing if your doing anything but hiding with rez or being someones pocket/bitch. Thats why I love playing Zen instead. Its just my personal preference. I dont hate on anyone who likes playing Mercy I actually like it when I have a Mercy on my team, it gives Zen the oppurtuinity to focus less on healing and more on being aggressive.

However, the new update is very interesting. I might even start playing Mercy once it comes out.
I guess theres some benefit to learning the current Mercy. Just be careful not to build bad habits or get used to it. Rez ranges are different too.
When you read a story and you see every movement EXACTLY in your head. 

lol

well done.
What a story! And that ending when you jumped off the bridge to join soldier bae XD

Need help with understanding the new SR system!
So, like the title says I need help understanding what's going on with the SR system. I feel the game is purposely trying to demote me back into bronze. Is it because Blizzard needs a certain percentage of their players in each skill bucket?

Here are my stats for this season. After placements I started at 1665SR, I've gone 13w - 2 D - 11L and now I'm at 1568. So having a win rate of 50% means you lose 100SR ranking? Or is it the fact that you need to go 70% win rate to increase?
Short answer is yes, there must be a certain amount of bronze, but not for the reason you think. 


SR is a trade off system.  For every point one person wins some else looses. (Sorta)

Here's a rundown of how the SR system works. 
If you are in the perfect matched game everybody on both teams has exactly the same SR then which ever team wins gets the default SR change (something  close to 20 SR) and the loosing team looses the default SR. This amount fluctuates based on relative SR in two ways. 
First :  your SR relative to your team average. If your SR is below the team average (which is shown at the start of match) then you gain extra SR for the win and loose less if you loose.  If you are above team average then you win less SR and loose more then the rest of your team. (Because as top rank you should carry more then the lower rank players)
SECOND:  your team SR relative to your enemy team SR. The underdogs are expected to loose so they loose less for loosing and gain more if they win because it's an upset. Just like betting.  

But the amount of SR that changes hands still balances for the win/loss portion of SR (the Elo portion of rank).  The winners get as much as the losers loose. 

if you loose games that the SR values thinks you should probably have won then you will loose more SR then you gain from a win. 

BUT - and it's an important But -  there is a second part to SR rewards: personal performance bonus. 

Your in game performance (damage, healing, assists, kills, ult impact, head shots, etc) gets calculated for each hero you play in a match.  It gets compared to the average performance of other players at your SR value on that hero.  

If you are above the average performance values then you gain bonus SR. If you are below then you loose SR. This is win or loose. This amount is small ( somewhere between 1- maybe 10 SR -the actual max is secret-ish). It compares your performance per minute with the average. Because it's average - every player that gets extra because they are above, there is someone below average that gets a penalty. 

So if your win/ loss is 50% and your SR has gone down, one of two things have happened. Either you are loosing games that you should have won based on SR, or you are underperforming on the heroes you are using and are slowly dropping because of personal performance bonuses and penalties. 

NOTE: there have been a lot of reports of glitches in SR and some of the heroes personal performance stats are a little 'wonky' and don't result it expected bonuses. 
> If you are above team average then you win less SR and loose more then the rest of your team. (Because as top rank you should carry more then the lower rank players)

This one makes sense in theory, but I'm not sure if it's actually true. I played over 100 games last season with the same group, and the top and bottom guys both managed to stay about 300 SR apart. If anything, the gap widened slightly.

Quick question: does preferring players increase queue time?
Just something I've been thinking about, since I recently started preferring players who I played well with. Wondering if anybody had a definitive answer.Posted by Jeff Kaplan @ Battlenet

11/02/2016 06:27 PM

Hello,

Prefer this player will attempt to put you in a match with that player if there is a spot available in their match when you're in the matchmaking queue. It doesn't happen frequently because we matchmake on skill, ping, group size and other factors and don't weigh the "prefer feature" very high. It's there as more of a "hey, if it happens to line up right, I'd prefer to play with this person again."

The feature works at such a low percentage that we are considering removing it. Increasing the frequency can result in really bad/undesirable behaviors (poor matchmaking, harassment etc.) so we don't turn the dial to make it happen more often.
no it wont, how i understand it if you get put into a match with 11 other people, the match maker will try to put you in the team with those you have on prefer. it will not look further outside your game to match you.
No-one will be able to give you a 'definitive' answer unless bliz themselves want to stop by and explain.

But it's a safe bet that it's pretty doubtful it would. The obvious implementation is to factor in the preferred-player thing, along with all the other variables flying around, ONLY IF there are any preferred players online & also eligible for matching, at the time that it's checking & making decisions about who to match with who. In other words, just another variable in the same process.

Introducing extra wait times for the sake of preferred player matching (or pretty much any reason really), would be anathema to an efficient matchmaking process.

Edit: I should've read down shouldn't I, ninja'd by jeff lol
I want to know the opposite actually. If I report a player for poor teamwork and block them, I'm assuming I won't math with them again yes?
I dont think this feature guarantees you play on their side. Actually it can put them against you also. So if you only prefer good players, you may find they are often on red team and they tear you apart :)

I read that the system will only use preferred players to help chose your 12 (not 6) players - AFTER its already done SR / MMR / Group Sizes etc.

personally I am weary of using it and instead simply "add friend" on PS4 if I have good games with other MIC users and get a good win streak with them.


Okay, thanks for the clarification!
You will be matched with them, regardless if you blocked them    
There used to be a feature that acted how you described (Avoid This Player), and some highly skilled players could not find matches at high SR because everyone else at that tier used Avoid
Would like to see a source on this.
That makes sense. But I mean I'm just going to assume that I won't match throwers/leavers and continue to report/block them. Can't hurt
https://us.battle.net/forums/en/overwatch/topic/20749075801#post-9


I'm sorry I didn't clarify, but this part of your comment is not covered:
>I dont think this feature guarantees you play on their side.  

>I read that the system will only use preferred players to help chose your 12 (not 6) players

Can you provide a source, this doesn't make sense to me.

What the hell is happening?
I lose everything game I play, last season I hit 2800 and it got me motivated then I started losing and losing, I think I am at a 10 loss streak I am a Winston main, all my other seasons I placed silver then got up to gold then climbed to play, I am not sure why I am doing so badly.Show Vod pls. Also, know when to stop playing, even if you dont think youre tilted nd playing fine (tilt is hard to notice). Never play while tilted, you wont think straight.

Some anecdotal advice: Lots of people have had huge loss streaks, only to gain back or improve their career high SR. If you belong in that rank, you get it back eventually. My biggest loss streak was around 16 (850ish SR lost) back in season 2. Blew past my career high the next week :)
Winning and losing streaks will happen just due to random chance, even quite big ones. And, if your climb to 2800 came from some lucky win streaks, it makes sense that you'd be pulled back down.

That said, I think many of the recent hero tweaks specifically make Winston's life harder. Last season, there was the Reaper buff, and he's become more common. Roadhog and Junkrat are capable of big burst damage and melting your bubble basically immediately. Orisa's improved shield and increased projectile speed means she's getting picked more, which also seems to encourage more Torbs and Bastions who can make really good use of the shield. Basically, there are a lot of characters who can pump a lot of damage into your big hitbox at a distance, where Winston can't do much, or who vastly out-damage him in Tesla-cannon range, who seem to be more popular picks this season for various reasons. Not saying that Winston is unviable, but if you haven't adjusted for the changes, you might be doing less work than last season. 
As others stated, post up vids. Also, know when to come out of comp for a while and jump into QP or arcade or else you'll find yourself falling so fast, it's not even funny. This is coming from a fallen S5 gold now climbing up from bronze.
If you lose one game, take a deep breath, get a drink of water, and shake it off before you go into your next one. If you lose the next one, leave it alone for a while. Even if you're not tilted, you're going to have a defeated mentality going into it, and that won't help anything.
I will be posting vod soon (in school atm) thanks for all the advice.
I can't say for sure cause I don't know the specifics of your story but I would imagine that part of the reason you were able to come back higher than your career high after the losing streak was possibly because of a win streak. You essentially sling shot yourself by getting low enough that you were able to have a larger impact on your matches which resulted in some easier wins and maintained that wave until you past your peak.

Win/lose streaks don't work quite like they used to so you're unlikely to lose as much SR and gain as much SR on streaks (unless perhaps they get really big). In general it's harder for your SR to fluctuate as wildly as before on streaks. That's not to say it can't or won't happen. It's just supposed to much more difficult now than it was S4 or earlier.
Yes, you're right. I imagine that they cancel out though e.g. If I had the dame loss streak now, I wouldve lost less SR, meaning theoretically its easier to get back to your real rank.

However, (more anectdotal evidence) I feel its easier to get hardstuck into a rank now, like I dont have to worry about deranking as badly, but now the climb feels way more grindier. I think the key here is try and reduce the amount of time you spend at an SR to avoid having your MMR set at that level, otherwise youre basically stuck there.

How do you turn your mistakes into good habits?
In a fast-paced game like Overwatch, it can be extremely hard to think about what you're doing wrong when you're in the moment. Generally I catch my mistakes when I die or after the match has ended, so I've been watching my VoDs and keeping a list of things I can work on. However, I've been thinking about how I can turn those things into good habits during my play. It's like the list gets longer and longer, but you can't possibly remember every single little habit you've written down somewhere, right?

So, how do you all do this? If you do at all?You start by focusing on one bad habit at a time and turning it into a good habit. Once it's habitual you don't have to think about it anymore. So don't worry about the whole list of things. Just pick out one or two things to improve on and once you see that you're consistently improving on those areas then pick another one or two things to work on.
- next time I should do this instead
- next time: shit i did the same bad thing again, i'll try harder to remember to do this better thing instead
- next time: i didn't do the bad thing again but i didn't quite do what i wanted to do instead because it's not muscle memory yet and i messed it up. Will try to execute better next time
- next time: avoided doing the bad thing again and got closer to doing what I should do instead
- next time
- next time
- next time

What's wrong with my aim and how can I fix it? (video included)
Hi, that McCree dude's back. I've been noticing recently that I keep on overflicking or underflicking, or maybe even shooting too early. I can't describe it and I'm at my odds ends on ways to get rid of [this horrible aim.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XkQZOVr2Hvs) Any advice or tips? All comments are appreciated, thanks! :DYou should try being more patient with your shots, try tracking a bit more instead of flicking. That will help with more general aim. And try counting your shots in your head so you don't run out of any when you flash someone. Hope this helps
Two routes you can go:

* Manually flick between every shot. When doing this you need to flick away to a known resting point and then flick back. Don't do this fast and eventually you will get get a consistent flick in one direction (e.g: You shoot, move cursor to right side of target, flick back to land the shot). Start slow and gradually increase the speed of these flicks. If you flick too fast you will shoot faster than recoil adjusts and shots will land too high.

* You can also just hold in left click and track the target. Can also do the same flickinging as above while holding LMB but its harder and you have to adjust your crosshair a tiny bit since it will shoot again before your recoil fully adjusts (meaning 2./3. shot will land higher than first). 

To practice lucio bots are fine but you should add more variety of heroes. You also need some drills to make flash -> headshot automatic. E.g: Put in some zarya bots with no shields enabled so you can drill that headbob.
Stop practising with lucio bots. I would rather warmup/practice on FFA deathmatch.
Take it slow with shots, make them count. It's like you prioritize getting shots off over hitting with them. I know I do and my McCree looks just like that.
Alright, thanks guys :D
1 shot should equal one click. Don't spam. Don't flick, instead track and make sure your crosshair is head level and then shoot.

It helped me, and on DM FFA i consistently have 50%+ accuracy with mccree.

When your aim improves you can incorporate flicking, and you'll be away more accurate, and deadly.
Have you tried optimizing input lag? I improved my aim significantly by reading guides and watching videos on how to reduce input lag. If you've done that, then upgrading your monitor to 144hz if it's in your budget can make a huge difference.
since you seem to shoot too early most of the time, try increasing your sensitivity a bit?

you can't tell from the video, but focus on looking where you want to shoot at, that is "the magic trick" to improve aim. i learned while getting my drivers license that in a dangerous situation when i have to do an evasive maneuver never look at the obstacle you want to avoid, look at the way you want to take to avoid it.

or same as the tennis teacher says to children learning tennis not hitting balls, look at the ball
And don't flash when you're out of ammo...
>What's wrong with my aim?

you're missing

>how can I fix it?

practice
To clarify other readers: you almost never want to just hold the lmb all the way. Always click each shot. Much more accurate. 
Listen man, as much as I agree with you, that's never a consistent thing. Sometimes I'm the first to finish 20 people who are all at less than 50 health, sometimes I'm the first to die to 20 people who are all roadhogs. Some people stand still as Bastion, some people dick around as Tracer. Sometimes I'm against Masters, sometimes I'm against low Silvers. Lucio bots are a pretty accessible way to see your aim, and you can switch it up with other hero bots, and it'll be fairly consistent everytime. :D
Hey you might want to consider locking your fps. You're running very fast there but consistent input lag is more important than fast. I saw you fluctuate between 170 and 220.

If you get into situations where a lot of ults are popping off at once you could have double the input lag as you're used to just fighting one lucio bot (say situations that drop you to 160).

Even if it's not a direct improvement, locking your FPS at say 155 or 170 will remove one variable out of your aim. You'll eventually get used to having a fairly consistent input and hit registration will feel much better.

I play at 75hz but I'm still locked at 145 because SIM is that much faster. I just turned it up from 90 FPS and it feels sooo much better. Press Shift+Ctrl+N to take a look at your SIM. As far as I know values are low/avg/high. Lock your FPS to the lowest you've seen (check it next big fight when a lot of ults are happening).

Edit: I'd still do what I've said above, but I'm wondering if your sens is too high as it looks like you're having trouble making micro movements. What's your DPI + in game sens?
But can you be more specific? What kind of practice would you suggest?
For me personally, holding the button helped my aim because I could concentrate on just tracking by itself. 
The movement with bots is unnatural and you will fall into bad aim habits. I know because it happened to me. Pretty much the same type of "lazy aim" as you. Switched the 30-60 minute bot warmup to 15min of Aim Hero and 30-45min of FFA deathmatch. I try to avoid using abilities so I can properly warm up my aim. Theres a good video on warming up from a youtuber called ioStux you should check out.
When you play DM are you trying to win or trying to practice your aim?
Bots really isn't the way to go for good reasons as the other user replied. 

I use to be a horrible person hitscan player. After much reading practice on quickplay and comp I am at a much better place now. 

Live gameplay is much better for multitude of reasons. It's just that much more efficient 
I am currently running at 800 DPI and 6.13 in-game sens. You bring up a good point with the FPS fluctuation though, I'm considering locking my FPS as it is weird to see maybe 120 fps and 280 in the same game. Wouldn't help my shots either, I'd assume :D
Practice aiming at peoples heads. You know, in games and stuff.
You're on the upper end of reasonable sens. Try lowering it to 3 in game sens for 15 minutes. 6 will feel *fast as balls* after switching back. If not, maybe don't switch. I play 3 x 1200 which is effectively the same. We can mostly rule out your mouse settings as being a problem.

You should be using your arm to aim to different targets and your wrist to focus shots. As long as you can focus different body parts of your target as a sniper, your sensitivity is probably fine.

What I'm trying to do ultimately is troubleshoot. We cant do that without restarting the computer first ;p.
If you insist on Lucio bots, please take it down to two, and have them do half damage to you instead of no headshots. Give yourself something to worry about.

I use easier lucios as a crutch while I'm aiming. I'll change aim from the one that's been giving me trouble to the other heading straight for me. You really do have to practice. By giving yourself 6 targets, you can focus the easiest target -- that messes up your aim training soooooo hard.

It's really easy to change gears because none of them are really posing a threat. Realistically, every enemy will be moving more erratically and posing more of a threat. If you keep shooting lucios please note this.
The lowest I've ever ran McCree at was 5.5 sens @ 800 DPI, anything below it and I can't flick at all man. On the other hand, I do see the accuracy part of low senses as it was easier to hit say, a Torb turret than to maybe flick over it 1 out of 8 times with high sens. But who knows, maybe I'll try it and get to GM ;D

Looking for a video about aiming.
There was a video about aiming, i cant seem to find it. It talked about tracking a luico until it boops you then switching to the other lucio. I really just want to find this video. I've scavenged the internet looking for it. I know it was posted here somewhere in the comments but i really cant find it.

EDIT: FOUND ITIt's this:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hl-C5yi2EMA&index=1&list=FLfzp71XoW9En4LjMV7wHE0w
Video linked by /u/kenshin13850:

Title|Channel|Published|Duration|Likes|Total Views
:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:
[Interval Aim Tracking Practice Track](https://youtube.com/watch?v=Hl-C5yi2EMA&index=1&list=FLfzp71XoW9En4LjMV7wHE0w)|inuse|2017-08-31|0:10:29|25+ (89%)|1,167

> How to use this track in order to train aim :...

---

[^Info](https://np.reddit.com/r/youtubot/wiki/index) ^| [^/u/kenshin13850 ^can ^delete](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=_youtubot_&subject=delete\%20comment&message=dmqwsee\%0A\%0AReason\%3A\%20\%2A\%2Aplease+help+us+improve\%2A\%2A) ^| ^v2.0.0

How to convince my roommate to improve his mechanical skill to play Ana better?
I sometimes duo q with one of my roommates.

He's never been good at FPS games. But he picked up mercy in S4 and somehow got his rank in line to my rank (masters). He's basically a one-trick.

Now since S6 he's insisting on playing Ana whenever he can. Problem is he is terrible at it and is starting to affect my rank when i play with him. He has terrible mechanical skill and its quite obvious but denies it because he usually has "70% accuracy most games".

I've watched him play and he just basically pads his stats by standing right behind his tanks and spamming shots even when they're fully healed.Have him play McCree a couple games and see how he does. Should help expose how bad his aim really is.
Dont go ruining friendships over games first and foremost.

You are the one who needs to figure out just how open your friend is to criticism in this matter, and you should know best how to approach him. Dont just take any advice from strangers in the internet.
1v1 him on Ana.
Try doing 1v1s with him. It's a good way to practice and he might even enjoy it.
Urge him to play Ana Paintball Deathmatches in Custom Games. If he really has good mechanical skills with Ana, he should prevail there right? Let him learn the hard way. 

tell him to record his matches and force him to watch all the mistakes he makes
Prove it to him by beating him in a 1v1 or playing some Ana Paintball together and see how he does. Once he realises his Ana needs work, then get him to check out other resources too.

Maybe get him to check out /r/AnaMains and see the guides on there: https://redd.it/6d6lbd

There's also a list of streamers and YouTubers who play Ana in the sidebar there, watching them might give him an idea of how Ana should be played and maybe he'll realise how different the impact they have compared to him.


How do you know it's mechanical skill that needs work. Just curious 
Go on his career profile and show him his win percentage with Mercy vs with Ana. If its as bad as you say , hell stop because people want to win.
70% even with accuracy padding is really bad lol
He could get a smurf, and start playing her there. Or play her when he's solo. 
I learned a lot of heroes almost all of them, and every time I picked up a new hero, my SR went down for a while. My friends that I Q with don't have to suffer with me. I don't try to learn new heroes with them. 
I second this. That's what I did to learn how to pick up Ana. I wouldn't touch her on my main in competitive until I was fully confident in my ability with her on my smurf. It really helped save me some frustration. 
This, I mostly play in a six man with friends as a DPS, and I mainly play hitscan. Each time I pick up a new hero (I used to one trick McCree) such as soldier, tracer or genji, I solo queued for about a week and if my sr was still stable or about he same  I'd go back and play 6 mans

Thoughts on Kill Cam Off or On?
Do you find it provides enough valuable information to leave it on? 

I tend to leave it off to help prevent tilt. On- you can always skip. But it wil tell you how close to ult the enemy is. Cool downs and for dym where her turrets are (by that hidden tp) 
Always on. You're blinding yourself to seeing the opposing team's ult status if you keep it off.

If you're tilting look at the ult meter, then immediately skip.
I had it off for awhile for the same reason...tilt. The thing is that if you're in a mindset to tilt, you'll find something else to cause it anyway. And you're missing out on valuable information. So I'd say definitely keep it on and then try to work on tilt through other methods.

Edit: And I'd actually add that watching precisely how you died is itself one method of alleviating tilt. You didn't die to some random bullshit most likely. You died to a combination of a good action of the opponents and a poor action of yourself. Being able to rationally analyze this play can do a lot to combat tilt because it (hopefully) takes you out of the realm of pure emotion.
When you're first starting the game, ABSOLUTELY LEAVE IT ON.  It is *so* useful to know exactly how you died.  Absolutely mandatory for self improvement.

As you play the game more, you'll start to get a better understanding of your deaths, and you'll be able to see what you did wrong before the killcam even starts.  In that case, you can skip it.

Also, you can see your enemy's ult charge, as other people have mentioned.
Sometimes you just gotta know... HOW THAT HOOK GOT ME!?!?!
I leave mine on, but skip it most of the time to watch my teammates. I might watch if I couldn't tell where an enemy came from or something like that, but I usually want to see what's happening live, especially in comp. And in quickplay, you get to see why your team is struggling. Namely 2 of them are dancing together 200 meters from the point. :/
Most times I know the mistake I made even before watching it so I just skip it. 
I'm still surprised they still allow killcalms on competitive because of the advantage they can give.  At least not showing the enemy HUD would fix it. 
ON, ON! OOOOONNN!!!

I hate myself for skip it so much without meaning =T

I keep pressing space bar just because is an nervous tick and I want to know how did I died, but this jumps the kill cam...

What you get from watching kill cams:

1. Enemy flanker positioning

2. Enemy Ult status

3. Can catch a hacker


I leave it off, not for tilt, but because i like to see the game as it happens from my teams eyes the entire time I'm not in the action.
I turn it off. You give up being able to see their ult which is a downgrade. But you also get to not reset the killfeed which helps in keeping score of the fight and calling out to pull out / hold ults. You can also watch people's flanks and what's going on. It's a trade off but it's been helpful for me
I like it on
I use it to see what mistake I made. It can be tilting if it's pure luck but it can be a huge learning opportunity
On, definitely.
it should be disabled in scrims/tournaments and probably even in comp

as for your own settings i wouldnt disable it, its a disadvantage
As most others have said, definitely keep it on. The only time you want to manually skip it is after you see the ult charge and if you have potential to be rezzed - this allows you to keep track of the fight and the killcam.

Its also really nice if you're in a rank where mechanics are highly variable. Killcams make it really easy to differentiate lucky or "random" kills vs wow that guy's reticle is like a friggin magnet to my face.

Also I'm kinda curious..what part of the killcam is tilting you?
I usually watch it to see how close an enemy is to an ult that I can relay to my team. Or if I noticed that I died ina stupid way I can learn from my mistakes. Lessons learned. If I died stupidly like trying to run through a hallway with a charging Rein, I'll skip so I. An cycle through my team and their performance or target locations. 
I can't always skip. Maybe there's a setting I have wrong or it's my platform (PS4) but sometimes on deathcam I press a button and it just stays on. Kind of frustrating when I'm trying to track ults or just see how the battle is going post-death.
^This, and it provides a different perspective of the kill, so you can see what you could have done differently to survive in third person.
Ive actually always been surprised that killcam is on competitive for that reason. 

I feel like it unnecessarily gives a lot of information about the enemy team. 
Yeah, I use it to calm myself down. It's not automatic, but rather, I force myself to watch what happened, and it helps.

Frequently I see that I was completely retarded. Just wandering in front of everyone, all by myself, easy pickings. It can be very humbling!

I also like seeing what percentage someone killed me with. If they only contributed 50%, then I know multiple people were hammering me, rather than simply losing a duel. It's a different kind of mistake.
"Oh, I deserved that"
-me watching the kill cam.
I was totally going to post the same thing. If it's not the tilt-can it's going to be something else. Fix that first. 
good in theory but the amount of killcams I've seen where I've been killed by a literally random hanzo shot is crazy. Still it is 100% worth it to have it on as for the most part it alleviates tilt and shows vital information
Unless you were killed by a Junkrat, or a Dva bomb, or something similar. Then the killcam doesn't help. 
Also gives you tips on if a player is cheating or not, so you don't end up mixing skill with "WOW, HAX!" For example: i was playing sombra and went to my translocator while invisible, only for an Ana to sleep me from a good distance away the moment I teleported. Normally I would accuse them of hacks or cheating (since i was undetected), but in the killcam i saw that she was aiming for a Hanzo directly behind me and got lucky.
IIRC it might be that you have different control bindings for different heroes. I think that technically it's the 'jump' button that you've set for the hero you're currently spectating which skips deathcam.
It's your jump button 
Thanks, I'll have to try that out! I remapped a lot of heroes (S76, Tracer, Sombra, Lucio, Pharah, Genji, Hanzo, Mei, Bastion, Mercy) to jump with a trigger so this could be why it sometimes works and sometimes doesn't.  
Oh boy this was super frustrating when I tried out console.

Heal on left trigger and dmg boost on right trigger

switch to torb

build turret on left trigger and single shot on right trigger, shotgun on right bumper

BAHHH Maybe my friend rebinded some buttons but damn that was so hard to learn 
Same, and this is totally the problem. I only found out when I got mad playing Hanzo when the deathcam wouldn't skip and I banged my controller down, hitting ltrigger, and it skipped! No more tilt
Many of life's woes can be solved by banging the controller down.

Newb Resources?
Hi guys, Dota player interested in starting out on Overwatch. FPS experience was limited to a small amount of TF2, and I've played Dota for a while at a reasonably advanced level. Looking for some beginner's guides/resources before I get going.
[iOstux's Getting Good at OW series](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3Mo3jjf8FU8&list=PLmT-z3WqrQzScRMHsJ4Q7n-Vv8mCYDRxo) is a good start for fundamentals and basics. Most of his videos are worth watching.


A couple other youtubers to check out:

* [Overwatch Dojo](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCYbJ6SGufekKMgzt42Dr1RQ)

* [KarQ](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCQH4V9PiY_eLo4Ihr1tWCwQ)

* [Skyline](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCDrfc_LU0llSRI7icBFoBnw)

* [Mind Fuzz](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC7H_8VGA2TVV3RjYgPVvWjg)
****

Depending on the heroes you're thinking about maining i could link a few guides. 

In general just play all the heroes until you know them well. Once you feel comfortable pick a couple from each category (DPS, tank, support) and focus on improving them. You want to be flexible but not to a fault
/u/Grrym has some great links for the key people to listen to. I'd recommend to avoid the major YouTube personalities such as: Your Overwatch, Stylosa (unit lost), ohnickel and the like for they tend to regurgitate community ideas and misinform the playerbase (ppl will disagree with me here, it's my personal opinion only).

Here are a few more links of use:


https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/6eflcw/competitive_new_players_whats_expected_of_you/

https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/5q9tlm/i_accidentally_ended_up_writing_an_introduction/  

https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/5yvgf5/becoming_clearer_on_what_game_sense_is_supposed/  

I have many other guides on aiming, specific hero guides, pick counters, SoloQ climbing and the like. If you are interested let me know and I can share more.  
If you ever feel like joining an active, growing and positive [Discord](https://discordapp.com/) community that has bronze to GM level players, DM me and I'll send you an invite. Being friendly and team oriented is more important than SR rating! We are predominately North American and I think the majority are east coast but have members in many regions as well.  
GLHF.


Play the game a little bit yourself. I really miss the early hours of Overwatch where I had no idea what to do and I played heroes that I liked and learned things that way. After that, I personally recommend [Seagull](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCaFnEJ5tWlK0TO5PWHqr8Hw/videos). He's a pro/streamer who's always giving tips and analyzing his/team/enemy's mistakes while playing. He taught me everything I know about Overwatch
/r/overwatch university has some good info
This subreddit is an excellent place to start and I would also suggest watching the Your Overwatch YouTube channel.  They have the best Overwatch content on YouTube imho.  
Winston, Torbjorn, Symmetra ar good picks to learn gamesense.
Do not worry about your aiming skills at all!

The least required skill to become good on OW is aiming.

This is an game about team work (like 10 times more team work than Dota tbh)
Thanks fam!
Soldier, dva, and Lucio were recommended to me as starter heroes
I needed this too so thanks for the info
Thanks fam!
You know where you are, right?
Your Overwatch pushes out a lot of shitty, fast content. They're just in it to make money
If one more newbie comes into this game thinking that Sombra's a motherfucking support I'm going to lose my mind. People need to stop listening to them. It's not hard to put out quality content, and at one point they used to, they've just stopped trying. 
[removed]
Those are all great choices. 
OOPS see that's my bad it's been a long day. 
[removed]
Don't feel bad, I have like 6 overwatch subs and I never know which is which just based on content 
You're just taking things too seriously 
I'm not even going to delete it. I accept my mistake.
I'm trying to help this guy, you're just being rude.
The quote is "You're taking this very seriously" btw 
Sir. You are the future of the world. Knowing when you are wrong.
"I need a drink"
To this day it confuses me how people continue to fight for something small even when they're wrong. The second I realize I'm wrong I jump ship on whatever it was like a rat, I want to actually be right. 

Resources for Reaper play?
I've been looking around for good Reaper streamers and found [these](https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/69knvc/request_best_video_channels_great_players_and/dh7b7m4/) [lists](https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/68kfpo/made_a_list_of_useful_youtuberspro_players/), both highly detailed but missing Reaper entirely. Are there any good sources of advanced Reaper gameplay, or does just no one play him at a high level?Spirit: https://twitch.tv/spiritow
reaper is a very simple hero so theres not much depth tbh but watching reaper streams dont hurt
Thanks! 
Many heroes are simple but even the most simple heroes still have intricacies that, if mastered, can make you a dominating force. Simplicity doesn't mean there isn't good information to be learned about proper positioning and engagement and such.

Fresh account placement range
Hello fellow students and professors,

Just a quick question regarding an accounts very first placement matches: obviously your rough rank will be determined by your quickplay mmr, but is there a certain capped range that you can place at? 

So for example, let's say you can neither place above 3500 nor below 1000. Is anything like this the case?For *fresh* accounts, even for smurfs, I think Blizzard capped it to under Masters. I don't think I've seen any of my T500 friends place straight into Masters on their smurfs as of recent.
I think it is under masters
I've never seen someone place under 800 nor above 4000

Mid plat vod review request - genji/soldier
I have dropped a bit, normally I play mid diamond. This was a really close game, where I had the idea I only made some minor mistakes, and we lost by a small margin. thanks in advance!

https://youtu.be/W5Jf1lEU2Jo
Looking for a guide on how to get higher fps
Anyone have a link or any tips on how to get higher fps? I have a gtx 1080, i7 6700k, and 16 gb of ram. On all low settings aside from high textures and 100% render quality, I am only getting around a constant 160 fps.What does your screen setting say in "video" options in OW? because that number after your 1080x1600 60* or whatever is how many Frames your screen can support, regardless of your GPU. so if it's (60*) then set your Framerate to custom and 70 and just be happy till you get a better screen... 
>> now lets pretend that you have a great monitor that supports over 200, then set your video settings to 200, low on almost everything. and if that still doesn't fix it, put your rendering at 75% and that should stable it. this will take many restarts of your game, but should fix it, if not, then your screen or your gpu is crapping out.. also make sure your NVidia gtx settings are set to max settings for OW. 

>> Plus watch this - [Click Here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ez2ZXjU4rWc)
That doesn't seem quite right for that kind of gpu but I'm not an expert.

Some general basic tips are to lower settings, like you've already done but you may even drop textures to medium and try that (textures was the biggest thing holding back my gtx 1060). You can also make sure you're on fullscreen rather than borderless windowed. Make sure your display setting matches the resolution of the monitor and the frequency of the monitor. You can reduce render scale to help.

There's probably some other things you could look at too. But ultimately, if you're using a 144hz monitor and getting consistent 160fps (not dipping below 144 at least) then you're fine. You may even want to lock your fps to 144 just so you get consistent input lag. Generally, the higher the fps the lower the input lag but fps spikes can mess up that input lag a bit, even if you don't dip below 144hz to visually see the frame drops. I used to think that the more fps the better and that having a majority of the time be higher and even if it spiked down sometimes it was still best to keep as high as possible. I've recently learned that consistency is more important that trying to squeak out as many frames as possible. 
Hm, those numbers seem off. What kind of RAM do you have, and what is your 6700k overclocked to?

I'm running a GTX 1070, i7-2600k @ 4.2GHz, and DDR3-1866 RAM (locked to 1600 MHz from the CPU), almost all settings max except for a select few, and my FPS ranges from 130-180 with ShadowPlay enabled on 4K resolution.

You should be getting significantly better FPS than I am.
Corsair vengence and honestly i do not believe my processor is overclocked at all, any tips on how to do that?
1920x1080 (144)
So yah if I had that I would be perfectly happy.

How Will We Deal with Junkrat after D.Va Nerf?
Junkrat is now the highest played DPS character at ever tier, according to the meta report. So how do we deal with Junkrat? I've had quite a few games now where Junkrat holds a choke simply by spamming. So how do you do it? Played a REALLY strong defense on Eichenwald where they had DVA/Zarya/Junkrat/Symm/Soldier/Ana. They had a Dva to control the bridge. They had a soldier to police the skies. They had Zarya, Junkrat, Soldier, and Ana spamming down choke. They had a team wipe ready with Zarya Grav, and my team wasn't able to stand in choke long enough to kill symm turrets. I finally got my team to go Dva/Winston to eat spam and take out turrets, but on the one push we had with that comp, the DVa didn't know what he was supposed to do, and the Winston died to spam.

Regardless... this is going to get even worse with the new Dva. Play nice play pharah
Cancer comps, especially at maps with good chokes, can be very difficult to deal with as the defense is generally easier to execute effectively than its counter.

Regardless, Pharmercy will still be pretty effective on many maps against Junkrat comps. Zarya is still a good soft counter, and Tracer/Sombra are effective at high levels (diamond+ for Tracer, master+ for Sombra.) Dive comp can still work in some situations; Junkrat melts to Dive if successful (although it is risky.) Dva may still be part of a good composition against Junkrat still; only time will tell.
Zarya and hog can work- high charge burst shield open with hook. Also try dive to just push in fast
Tbh, this is just season 1 all over again.

Everybody thinks that Junkrat is OP, then an month latter people start to realise that they don't need to step on his shots that are really easy to avoid...

What is weak against junkrat:

1. Dive, jumping on a Junkrat is suicidal, is the same that trying to fight a raeper face to face, not a smart move boy. Junkrat is an GREAT comp to divers, specially winston and doomfist.

2. small rooms, Junkrat will take advantage of walls and small corridors to take you and your team out, if they have a junkrat don't go trough the small corridors on 1st point numbani for example, is asking to die

What is strong against Junkrat:

1. High Ground, he can jump on high grounds now with the extra mine and have a chance to fight. But it isn't his strong, stay higher than him to avoid his bombs

2. Open areas, Junkrat hate an open area and will lose to a single mercy if she is smart do avoid his bombs

3. Fights that are +15m away from him, he can do great being far on a choke point, but if you're on the open and far from him, will be almost impossible to him fight you

What counters junkrat:

1. D.Va, before changes is the strongest counter for junkrat, pharah and bastion, but it will change and she will be weak against Junk

2. Pharah, she can fly and is close to impossible for junk to win, he have an chance if pharah isn't smart or he gets pretty lucky with his shots, but if we talk about lucky even a Lúcio can 1v1 a RoadHog

3. Soldier 76, he always was an strong counter to junk, stays on high grounds, can shot from far without problems and his weapon is in a big advantage against a junkrat (Specially if we count the biotic field, since you can heal part of his damage and avoid an insta kill via combos)

4. Zarya, she isn't really a counter, but she LOOOVES the enemy junkrats, even the worst zaryas can have 100% charge for an entire match with an junkrat on the enemy team

5. Genji, deflect + high mobility makes him an hero that is in a big advantage against a junkrat, just go after he spends his mines to increase chances

____

If the enemy junkrat is like an pvptwitch / chro and is destroying you guys, you can even make an comp with tons of advantage against him like

Reinhardt + Zarya + Pharah + Soldier + Mercy + Lúcio (No one on this comp will have big problems to deal with Junkrat at all!)


_____

> defense on Eichenwald where they had DVA/Zarya/Junkrat/Symm/Soldier/Ana

So, you could have an easy win against  this comp

Zarya, Junkrat and Symmetra had no chances against an Pharmercy, you would only need some tries to make your Pharah destroy their soldier and clean everyone else

Would help to use an Junkrat and spam at D.va making her waste her D.M. (Shotting to the bridge isn't hard) or you could use an Tracer, the player would need to be good, but he would be able to destroy symmetra tele and sym herself

Having an Winston was the worst part, since he have no chances against an Junkrat, even if you see him breaking sym turrets, a Reinhardt could break them as well while an D.Va used DM to protect him and he could go shield after

So the comp I would suggest is:

Pharah - Mercy - Reinhardt - Lúcio (speed to help Rein to move with the shield) - D.Va (Go zarya after nerf) - Tracer (if Tele is bothering) or Junkrat (if the D.Va DM is stopping the Pharah)
What about bastion?
Can you link the meta report?
I will never understand why they gave him double concussive mines. Rip Tire buff? Absolutely needed.

With no self damage.
Don't know how comp works, but other than Pharah, Genji can pickoff junkrat pretty well if you manage to deflect the mine + some bombs.

Other than that, he can just concussion mine away from a lot of heroes. Not sure about team comps and stuff.
Tracer. Find an amazing tracer to put on your team. They will melt a junk, Ana, Roadhog, a current DVa, etc. Most people are suggesting dive, and that's the best I can think of at the moment. It's more important that your Tracer can bust through a choke and pick off supports than anything, but they need to be very good at staying alive. 
Treat Junkrat like a Bastion. With Bastion, you build comps around killing him (soldier/pharah/zen/dva) and focus firing him first before moving onto the rest of the team. After that, it's hard for a Bastion to set up again. Similarly, if you focus Junkrat first, you prevent him from doing damage and make it harder for him to be effective since he excels in closed off areas.
Pharah will always dumpster Junkrat if they're on relative skill levels. New Mercy can also undo Junkrat's damage by removing any picks he does get. 

Zarya can't counter him directly but can feast on his spam to plough the rest of his team. Orisa can also deal with Junkrat by pulling him/his team out of position, and can throw out shields at a rate where Junkrat's spam window is weakened. 

Long-rand hitscan, especially at high ranks where players don't miss, slam dunk Junkrat. In particular, McCree and Widow have big burst damage to kill Junkrat before he can respond (Flashbang, Charged Headshot). The new cooldown for Widow also makes it easier for her to flank Junkrat by grapple-jumping and one-shorting him. 

Sombra also screws over the team surrounding Junkrat as well as removing his escape mechanism. If you hack first, Sombra should win 1v1s against the Rat by one-clipping him. 
A well placed D.Va bomb would have opened that choke. 

Maybe. Mid-high plat has no idea how to beat such comps. Me and others are often left wondering what to do. 
I'm surprised how well I've done playing against Junkrat with Orisa.  Maybe it's because i'm playing high diamond, but I pull him up and he gets shot pretty easily by a Pharah flying above
I lived enough to see Junkrat being not only viable but one of the best picks in the Game.  O.O 
Shields from Zarya and Orisa work well. Since he's spamming, he's not aiming at something in particular. So it is sensible to think a barrier would deny Junkrat from ultimate charge.

Of course, you can also help your Pharmercy with a bubble from time to time, and in return they will help you by unleashing hell on those you catch in the graviton.

uhm you learn to keep your distance and avoid tight rooms/ways
Shoot 'em in the 'ead. 'EADSHOT!
Get high ground.
I'm finding running a hog in the second dps slot works well, zarya, rein/Orisa/Winston in the tank slots. Seems like a return to triple tank sort of comps might do OK but the presence of doomfist makes this sort of comp easy to punish, so having a hog as third tank/second dps counters doomfist well. 
I know as a former Junkrat main, especially attacking, I struggle with Symmetra if her turrets are staggered on multiple eye levels. It took me too long to break down a well separated car wash. She's also harder to hit than you think by being able to jump behind you locked on.

I, even just buying a golden gun a couple weeks ago, resign the title of Junkrat main because of the unskilled nature it's taken on. Everyone can play Junk serviceable at their level. It's like being a Mercy main, but also being the dick that locks DPS, simultaneously. 
Pls no more Pharmercy
Playing pharah is basically cheating though. There's a reason people feel like crap when they swap to her just to win.
TBH I shit on pharah as junk
I'm curious if Hog will become a natural counter. He can bust down the defense that protects junkrat, and pull him out of situations where junkrat is dangerous in order to create a space where he's harmless. On top of that, the breather change allows him to tank hits to threaten junk's space.
I guess the new Mercy will be a good counter to the new Junkrat.
Dva 1v1 against a Junkrat isn't too bad in the PTR, especially if you get the drop on him. The problem is that Dva is almost instantly de-meched if Junkrat has even one teammate with him.

Once her short matrix is down she doesn't have much armor to protect herself anymore and she is very easy to crit. The new Dva is hell with a good Mercy pocketing her, but she can't do anything on her own anymore without getting pushed out of mech.

On the PTR I can guarantee a kill almost every fight, but at the cost of my mech which I might not get back fast enough to help in the next fight.
It still boggles the mind tho when the balances get to a point you need 3 to 4 heroes to counter the effects of just one hero, and thats not even taking into account whether or not hes being well supported by his team or not.
I'm not gonna play Pharmercy just to win. I'd seriously rather flat out lose than belittle my opponents with that stupidity.
Zarya seems like a great pick. We had a hog, and they had no shield to burst. His hooks were getting bubbled too.
I've really enjoyed Zarya/Hog this season as Zarya.  He is a super-reliable source of charge, and he and I can kill pretty much anything.

The problem is that the rest of the team is own their own.  No shield, and the bubble's for Hog.  Reaper ults, D.va ults, etc. cause major problems.  Maybe we need triple tank again, so D.va can eat the hitscan and reaper ults.  For now.
I find winston disruptive as Junk. He can't really kill me, but I have trouble killing him when he lands on my team and drops a shield. Disrupts my damage output and where I want to put my mines/traps
Not to be a grammar nazi but just friendly reminder- 

"an" is used when there is a vowel or vowel sound on the next word. "A" is used instead. So "a junkrat" not "an junkrat". 
What about widow.
Probably not a good idea because bastion has to set up in turret mode to be effective and junkrat can quickly burst bastion down and can also damage him from much further away. 
Bastion to deal with Junkrat or how are people going to deal with bastion without Dva?

It's a good point. How do you beat a Junkrat, Bastion, Symmetra? MAYBE you go Pharah and sneak up on them... unless they also have a Mercy/Teleporter.
Double mines = 

Allow him to stand a chance against his biggest counters, Pharah and Soldier

There was absolutely no way to deal with an Pharah, now you can scare her with the mines

Soldier was always on High grounds and after you spend your mine to jump at him, your weapon won't be good enough to give you an fair fight on the high ground.

He counters Pharah and SOldier now? Absolutely NOT, but he can have chances
Yeah, I think he just has way too much burst damage now.  If the mines were designed for using one to jump and another to damage, they should do less damage.  Because Junkrats are using them to kill two people in close quarters instantly.  It's like they gave Hanzo two scatter arrows and a CC ability, and you don't have to aim.  A little overpowered.

I play pretty much everyone except Pharah.  Time to learn, I guess.
Because concussive mine is the most consistent and reliable part of his kit, so if Blizzard's goal is to increase Junkrat's presence at the highest tiers, it makes perfect sense to emphasize that ability which already rewards skill and make it reward skill even more.
>  well if you manage to deflect the mine + some bombs

I mean... the problem is in choke points. So Junkrat can just spam down a choke, and it's OP. If he gets into duels he's super OP now because he always has a mine up, which one shots squishy characters, and it helps him escape if necessary. Maybe you can get into a good position to flank and deal with junkrat one on one... but maybe not because they do have Zarya/Symmetra. 
As a junk player Tracers don't bother me much.  Trap and mine to the face
The difference is that Bastion has to see you to shoot you. Junkrat can fight in small rooms. Bastion is disadvantaged there because people find cover.
Yeah, I didn't really think about that until I made the thread lol. 
I've been playing her a lot recently and her right click is very good against the Rat. If he's sitting on high ground peaking I can pull him off high ground or out of cover. I can also lay down suppressing hire that keep him pinned down. Halt can also ruin his mine jumps when he's trying to get away.

The shield is 50/50. If Junkrat alone is wasting shots against it, then I'll usually have a new one on cooldown by the time he busts it down. If he has backup, then I'll be backtracking pretty fast. However, I can usually Fortify and survive long enough to up my next shield. I'll lose ground, but not as quickly as a Reinhardt would.

Edit: I would also like to thank all the "new" Junkrat mains this season who still think it's a good idea to spam my shield instead of firing over it or around it. There's just something hypnotizing about big blue barriers isn't there?
I will keep my distance from chokes? 
Weird. I feel like the exact opposite. Hog can't do much against junkrat. Neither can rein. If you land a hook he can quickly escape while dealing a lot of damage. All you do is charge his ult, which is sort of OP now because it always kills something. 
BEST counter to pharmercy: Torb. Turrets placed to target skies more than ground, add a shield for some reinforcement. Pharmercys HATE this. Ask them! They talk about it here. In reddit.
This turned from how to counter pharmercy to who counters törbjorn. Good job reddit.


I'm learning and loving Tracer right now, and my absolute favorite thing to do is catch Pharah on her way down from the sky and kill her before she can figure out where she's being shot from.

I'm sure good Pharahs never come close enough for that to work, but in bronze, it's happened several times.
Neat.
Yeah gotta love the hitscan arcing grenades. 
How do you slow your jumps to defecate so accurately ?
As a Junkrat main, I can confirm that right now the thing that will have me backing up and running away the fastest is when a Hog starts walking my direction. Sometime I get lucky and can escape with a concussion mine after being hooked, but if he pulls me into his team, or out into the open, I'm as good as dead, and I simply can't bring him down fast enough to avoid dying to him. Even pharah doesn't deter me from my favorite positions quite the way the current Hog does.
If a junkrat required that level of effort in every situation, I'd say there was an imbalance. However, I feel like the specific situations where he's *that* strong are highly dependent on multiple factors (such as heroes supporting him, specific chokes where he's strong, other team's comp, etc.).

If junkrat was solo holding a choke against 4 other players, that would definitely be an imbalance.
Overwatch is a team game and Blizzard assumes that there is going to be some teamwork. The problem is that in low MMR overwatch solo queue quickplay and ranked, people treat the game as deathmatch and just chase kills caring about nothing else. If you are queuing as a group with people you know or climb to higher ranks it probably gets better.

Pubstomp champions that can be lethally effective with minimal skill are the bane of overwatch solo queue. Torb, Symmetra, Junkrat, and to a lesser extent Hanzo when played as spamzo.

Turtle setups with Torb and Orissa or Bastion and Rein require very little skill to coordinate but to counter them you need your entire team working together. People say Blizzard doesn't balance the game around quickplay or bronze and silver but then why did the Roadhog nerfs happen? 
I don't understand why your opponent's keyboards don't have an "H" button on them. Most of mine have one right between "G" and "J."

Edit: maybe it's a problem on console?
Problem I've found with Zarya is you definitely win the first 3 seconds of an initiate, what with getting 80 charge between you and your teammates, but he'll keep spamming after your bubble is long gone and he's only got 400 health to chunk through minus the Orisa he's standing behind minus the Reaper trying to kill you anyway.

I would make the definitive argument he actually counters Zarya just by doing so much raw DPS that he can charge you and kill you in one foul swoop, and charge isn't worth anything when you're dead.

I've had the best luck with Winston because I can make him uncomfortable. He's only got 200 health and can't mine away or I'll follow him. I just can't get trapped.
Huge thing to learn as Junkrat is that to deal with a Winston, place a Mine at his feet. It will launch him backwards, away from whatever target he wanted. 
If you practice it enough, you can put the trap exactly where the winston falls. Is one of the most satisfying things to do XD

And even if he botters for like 5 seconds, he will be dead soon enough without making any real damage to the team, usually he will give just to much ult charge for the enemy in a case like this

(The same happens when winston tries to dive an Bastion team or an team with armor packs from torbjörn)
Thank you friend, trying to improve my english <3
I never had problems with widows to be honest, I think this will come to player skill and awareness

Since Junk can shot the place where widow hides without being on line of sight, but widow can easily one shot him, since most junks stay still or repeating the same movement pattern while spamming bombs
> bastion has to set up in turret mode to be effective

This is a myth. Recon has the same range as Soldier, with less spread. With its armor and less bursty healing, Bastion fares far better against grenade splash damage than most non-tanks. Sentry mode also easily melts a flying incoming Junkrat in less than half a second, in case you get divebombed.
I meant bastion is a bigger concern than junkrat with dva nerf unless she can kill him solo
Why should he have a chance against his biggest counters? (and I'll disagree about Soldier. That's completely map-dependent)

Lots of characters get destroyed by others such that they rely on teammates to synergize, why no Junkrat?
I'm sick of Blizzard "fixing" characters and eliminating their counter.

There are enough heroes in the game that yes, everyone *should* have a counter.  If you're playing junk rat and getting creamed by pharah, switch off junkrat.

Why the hell should a ground-based grenade lobber stand any chance against an aerial rocket shooter?

I give it two years before no one counters anyone, because Blizzard didn't want things to be unfair.
Concussion mine only does 120 dmg so it won't be one shotting anyone. If you mean the land one left click then concussion mine, then with that logic your trap is a one shot too
It doesn't matter if Bastion needs to see you to shoot you. If you do not deal with Bastion first, then you're not going to win a team fight and the same applies to Junkrat, but to a lesser degree.

Then why fight in small rooms? For examples, on Kings Row control point, the library on the left of the statue (from attackers PoV) is the best place for a defensive Junkrat to situate himself. Once he goes into the open, then he's at risk of dying. If you go up the opera house and drop down through the window and attack from the right side of the statue, you not only avoid the Junkrat spam, but you also are forcing the Junkrat to come out into the open.

When you approach a choke, you shouldn't be coming at an angle where your Reinhardt shield can be worn down or you are at risk of getting picked off/poked. With the changes that Junkrat has undergone, it's forcing you to play differently than before and thinking twice about the route you take to engage (doesn't work with all maps like Hanamura/Volskaya).
I mean, if Junkrat is in a small room, don't go into the small room.  There are no objectives that require you to be in a small room to contest them.

I learned from Chateau Deathmatch: don't go into the basement.  If Junkrat wants to kill me he can fight on my terms.
you wanna get through as fast as possible and dont stay outside, otherwise you will get hit by random spam. just get a lucio and dva/rein, i dont see how that can fail. its a few seconds where you have to pass it.
With hog, you can break down any barriers that a Junkrat can potentially hide behind faster than any other dps character.
I agree that rein gets shit on by junk now more than ever. The key with hog is to hook a rat into your team and allow your frontline to cleanup. Hog is also decent at killing tires quickly with his alt fire if your aim is good; his alt fire can one shot a tire at the correct distance. 

I think Pharah is the hardest counter to a junkrat, but I feel Orisa+hog+zarya is the best frontline to deal with him. 
Uhh, no. Pharah is a great counter to trob. Most spots she can position herself outside of the range of the turret and kill it for free. Setup shields on gas station Route 66? One boop destroys that strat every time.
Nice try Pharah
Dude pharaoh counters torb lol
Neato burrito!
Yeah not like he can instantly kill them both with 2 mines. 
Seconded, hog makes me sweat as junkrat. I can take him on if I catch him in a bad spot, but I really rather not.
Yea, I dont actually think JR is *that* OP. I do think he can throw out a lot of spam damage that is annoying considering thats the nature of spam; I dont like Demomen either when all the do is sit on a ledge and spam blindly down a hallway n manage to get 6 kills, but Im cognizant enough to know thats more an issue with ym own team not rotating and a Junkrat we're setting up to not have to work very hard. Its the nature of trash damage/spam damage classes. They serve to give Scouts/Tracers/Flankers an easier time in confirming kills. My only real beef with balancing situation was that they didnt... nudge down the damage of his concussion mine by like 15-20 damage.

However, I can definitely see a seasonal reign of defense heavy teams because we have a lot of heroes at the MOMENT that are simply very good at denying area from way far behind the choke and the games main damage mitigation machine is currently being "reworked". With everything being up in the air right now with no idea of where it might land yet, its gonna take people a lil' extra time to start forming new strategies when it comes to dealing with it. Its simply because we dont know where DVas gonna be in a few months and she might not be able to be the spear head, deleting choke spam in a the future, but she might also still be able to? The in unknown factor is probably making people insecure about future metas.
> one foul swoop 

One fell swoop.
Yeah, but hypothetically he can kill her in 2 seconds now.
If you're mostly playing bastion in sentry form than you'd probably be better off just playing solider. 
> Why should he have a chance against his biggest counters?

Because he was so hardly countered by so many heroes in the game that he was not even played on higher ranks, and the devs want to make an game where every hero have his place

> Lots of characters get destroyed by others such that they rely on teammates to synergize, why no Junkrat?

Lots ≠ All

Junkrat works like every other hero and will work at some points, at some situations, have his easy targets and have the ones who will destroy him.


______

Don't forget that junkrat was abandoned after season 1 just because he didn't stand a chance against the Death Balls with

Reinhardt + Zarya + Soldier + Pharah + Mercy + Lúcio

And remmember as well that if you look at the red glowing balls that he trows on you, they're coming slowly, you can move and avoid them without much work. Everybody was used to do this a year ago...

People are just trying to dive the junkrat and dying because they're dumb and don't respect the fact that he is an hero made to control an specific area of an map. Like every other Defensive hero...
Hard counters are in general bad for the game, because there's not really an amount of play that can fix the interaction. Ideally, the game will feature characters you choose having large advantages against other people, but skill should be able to overcome hard counters. Widow vs Winston comes to mind as an appropriate hard counter situation.
>  stand any chance 

By stand any chance it means that he will win like 5% of the combats against a Pharah

And any player that have at least 10 hours in the game will know that if you get bellow 120 HP, you don't get close to a junkrat XD Pharah only needs to use an Shift and done, zero chances again...
Would that not in itself be fair?
ICHTPT, and also what mawbles said.
lol whatever. It's not a "one shot". It's just "instantaneous". Takes a bit of coordination, but if they're in your face, there's a chance it happens before you can react if you're out of position.
Places I've had problems are 1. First point on Anubis 2. The choke on Eichenwald. Both seem doable, but in solo queue, when nobody seems to know the difference between "go right" and "go left", and people don't see to be able to coordinate... it's just sort of crazy.

For example, in the game I was talking about, people wanted to go into the right room on Eichenwald. They died doing that, and I said over comms "let's not go that way". Then they tried going main, and they were hit with spam and turrets. I don't know how people forget that the turrets are there... but they do.

So I know I should have gone DVA to eat spam, but there are situations where Junkrat is OP. I already "change my thinking", but it sounds like the counter to a Junkrat is a Pharah mercy. Force them to go Widow/Soldier/McCree, then jump on them.
True... but that whole time you are eating spam. I don't think junkrat is countered by hog. It only solves half of the problem. 
Hog is bad against junk man

The only tanks that do good against him are Reinhardt and Zarya

RoadHog = no self protection and extremely big hit box, junkrat can really aim and hit him on purpose

Orisa = Shield is fixed on a point, to big and easy to hit like rog

D.Va = Best at now, I don't know how it will be after changes, maybe she will be able to fly and deal with him by herself, maybe she will be weak, I have no idea.

Reinhart = Shield is big, 2000 HP, can move fast enough to get your entire team in the enemy face with the help of an Lúcio

Zarya = Will deal more damage than most DPS heroes all game thanks to an junkrat spaming

Junkrat went into oblivion after season 1 because comps where made by Reinhardt + Zarya + Mercy + Lúcio + Soldier + Pharah and with a good reason, everyone on the list is good against him
Thats because that is not a good place to setup.
Pharah can Long range that, One Lucio Boop and it's gone. Junk spam and DELETED.
It's a rank thing. Most Pharahs I see in gold / plat have no clue how to deal with a shielded turret. Heck, some even manage to get countered by the turret alone >.<
I play in Masters on console. I go Orisa/Torb/Soldier. This combo definitely counters Pharah. Even Pharmercy is not a problem. 

Torb's turret behind shield. Turret always tells where the Pharah is so no stealth movement. Soldier/Turret can shoot at Phara from 2 different angles and protect each other. This is a tough thing to break and requires dedicated push with good comms


No she doesn't, Turret deals 14 dmg per shot. A simple lvl 2 turrets fires 4 shots per second. 4x14=56. 3 secs + 1 hot by torbs gun and she is OUT. 
only the best of friends know each others weaknesses
Yeah, I definitely think JR's mine should have been nerfed a little to compensate for his having two now. The way they worded it was that it would help his mobility--and it does. But it also makes him be able to burst HUGE amounts of damage in a very short amount of time.

The meta is going to be in turmoil for the next couple weeks with the DVa and Mercy change incoming. No way to know how the dust will settle. 

I've always liked Junkrat, but I've never played him much in competitive simply because of his marginal ineffectiveness in the previous metas. I'm happy to see him more prominent, but, yeah, *this* prominent? lol
What's to say his swoop isn't just foul? ;D
If you're mostly playing bastion in sentry form you'd probably be better off just playing torbjorn.
Those are the two most Junk favored chokes in the game (Rogue played him on Anubis ages ago before tank meta)...  If he didn't give you trouble there he'd be useless.
Sounds like in those situations you would have lost to a Bastion even.
You underestimate Orisa. I've been twisting junkrats nuts off as her these past few days.  Junkrats will try to spam your shield, you halt him, melt him and move on.   Granted this requires your team lay some pressure on possible shields but Orisa is goodt for that too. 
Yes it is. At low rank any hero can kill any hero it's a toss up. Not truly a matter of "counters"
Ugh, 3 characters versus 1 or 3 v2 yeah it should win...
Well duh a soldier lol. I play GM on xbone. And yes at that point you're making pharah job harder by applying pressure with soldier and a shield with Orissa but you could do that with anyone who counters someone. Like reaper counters Winston but if you add DVA and mcree then no he couldn't do so well. But overall, torb is very countered by pharah. Yes you can build a comp it make it more viable but that's more complex than his discussion 
..... she can literally fire one of the most high dps projectiles at it from a distance the turret can't reach and shoot it down like it's nothing lol....

Edit: not to mention torb has to practically stand still to build a turret making him very easily killed by such a high damage projectile hero such as pharah. 
Torb is useless without his turret and there isn't anyone better at taking it out than pharah. 
Honestly Id be happy if a Junkrat couldnt bust me down as a Zarya with full health lol

But I dont think the mine should be useless. I wouldve been happy with simply decreasing it from 120 to 100.
Maybe, but I feel like people understand how to counter Bastion. We're at the point where junkrat is new, and people don't get it.
It's true, an Orisa shield cooldown is a lot harder to race as a junk than any other shield tank
I'm not underestimating Orisa, I'm taking in consideration equal skills Orisa and Junkrat players.

Junkrat is an hard counter to Orisa, not because he will spam the shield, because he will surpass the shield and hit her without even being on line of sight.

The reason for you to be destroying so many junks on Orisa is simple, they're bad, most junk players are pretty bad man.

Is just because he is an "new" thing and people aren't ready to deal with it yet.


For example, are you still scared of an PharMercy as you was on Season 4? Or Scared of an Reaper as you was when he got the healing buff? Or is still to hard to hit the doomfist trying to combo you? Everything gets easier after you get used to it
main junkrat and I agree. have no problem walking right up to rein while shooting and the lobbing a mine over to boop him up in the air. not scared on rein at all.

Orissa on the other hand by the time I wear the shield down if no one else is attacking her shield she can put another one up almost immediately, all while shooting at me. if she's half health I'll mine over her shield and blast her assuming fortify is on cd. she's only easy if she's backed up against a wall you can bounce your grenades off onto her
I am just saying that Pharah counters Torb argument is not valid if your teammates are helping the turret stay up. 

I am pointing out that in this scenario Pharah would have to depend on her teammates to take care of the turret and hence Torb is countering her and not the other way around.
> but you could do that with anyone who counters someone

Agreed. And as you said counters are a much more complicated discussion and depend on the comp more than individual 1v1 matchups. 
If you are having too many 1v1's you are playing the game wrong  

When someone says Pharah counters Torb I do not agree because when we are having trouble on defense from a pharah I request team to go torb+hitscan+shield with successful results. 
That's why position is key, or... Does hog counter soldier? On plain paper yeah, put a Soldier on high ground and hog is out. SAME THING. 
If you have a bad torb on plain sight yeah it is. Positioning is key.
Me too... I'm thinking (hoping) that blizzard will eventually make this change lol
lol you're one of those people who will stop at nothing to defend an argument. So no point in discussing it further. Soldier counters pharah. So arguing that including one of her hardest counters in addition to an op shield to protect the torb doesn't really make sense. At the end of the day pharah can play out of LOS and distance to displace torb and destroy his turret and also limit his ability to properly place is turret in the ideal location making him unviable. Anyone in GM+ that I've met agrees pharah counters torb. And if the team has dedicate over half their team comp (3 people) just to manage a torb the pharah is doing more than countering torb she's dictating the entire enemy play style 

Edit: if you have to dedicate 2 addition heros to protecting the torb I think it's a no brainer that he's getting hard countered lol 

Edit 2: just out of curiosity, who do you think torb's hard counters are? Cuz if not pharah I'm interested in who else is better?
Does Torb counter Pharah? On paper, yes, but if Pharah fires a rocket from around a corner and repeats this, Torb is out. 
That's not how any of this works, I'm afraid. 
Not the same thing at all. 
Yes position is key, and pharah will negate his turret anywhere it's useful. If he has to hide is turret so much then torb is useless cuz his turret has no LOS. 99% of the time this is true. Always exceptions exist 
> lol you're one of those people who will stop at nothing to defend an argument

No I am not just trying to win the argument. I just saying that there are alternatives and saying one player counters others while totally discounting team synergy is unfair and brings out the wrong impression. 

>Edit: if you have to dedicate 2 addition heros to protecting the torb I think it's a no brainer that he's getting hard countered lol

Torb is not just taking care of Pharah he is also taking care of other potential flankers and providing armor to healers.   

> Edit 2: just out of curiosity, who do you think torb's hard counters are? Cuz if not pharah I'm interested in who else is better?

A good dive Winston+Dva or Zarya, 2 out of Genji, Tracer, Sombra, Pharah any two healers - preferably lucio/mercy. But even at my masters elo teamwork is really a hit or miss. 

Yes I did include Pharah in the dive comp because there she will be effective. But Pharah in a deathball comp will not be effective vs Shield+Torb+hitscan. 

Rocket in the face? Yeah it does.
Then how is it? Please enlighten me.
Yes they do exist.
You do know that tracer is like super hard countered by torb right? Her blink means nothing to an auto aim target and she has 150hp. And I'm not talking comps. I'm talking single heros who hard counter him
Ideally, the Torb would position it well and not die with his turret so he could rebuild.
Because there is no positioning anywhere in this game where Tjorb turret can counter Pharah. Anyone decent will tell you this. This isn't a simple case of "high-ground/low ground" - Pharah can literally either hit the turret out of range or do kite missles from around a wall. If they shield it that means the shield isn't protecting the choke. Seriously I just don't think you have much experience or you're talking out of your ass. 

Zen VOD for review
Stuck in high silver, low gold. Here's a game from today. Help me out. I usually QP with my friends who are diamond and hold my own just fine. Is it just bad luck?

https://youtu.be/xD5g2anx744Hi, diamond zen main here. I watched 3 minutes (don't have much time atm). You always want to position yourself on the back as zen, keep your distance, have cover and have vision on your team (in the general case, off-course there are exceptions), because you could basically use everything of your kit from there. I noticed you doing this wrong at 0:25 (You are at the front line of the attack), 1:25 (You could shoot from the far back, no need to be in Soldiers face), 1:50 (You say group up, but still go alone on the front line and get picked. You needed to stay far back and indeed regroup and wait for the team), 2:30 (You have perfect cover behind the wall - use it, shoot from there and assist the team, you could also ult there in order to cap the point for sure. Instead you go in the middle of the point and get picked). Another important thing is to always have both of your orbs active. If you watch through the first minutes, you will notice many moments, where that is not the case and the reason I think is that you are in front of the team instead of behind it.

There are other errors too, but I think you should try to fix one thing at a time, don't focus on too many stuff and you will notice an improvement over time.


Two things stand out to me after watching the whole video: 

One: You should think about investing in a mic so that you can call out your discords. This will make it easier for your teammates to collapse on a target. 

Plus, it's just generally good to have a mic for communication, even if you're the only one who has one because you can still call out to your teammates if there is a flanker on you in the backline. 

Two: You have this habit of shooting directly at an enemy instead of shooting where they will be. This causes you to miss some of your shots because you aren't accounting for their travel time.

You have to get into the habit of leading your targets. This can be difficult to do. So I advise that you start out by going to the practice range and firing at the moving bots from all sorts of ranges as well as doing it on the move, because you're almost always going to be moving and shooting. 

Hope this advice helps. 
Full disclosure, low Plat high gold Zen main.

I find that I have to go to front line to get picks when my dps fails to, even if it means I die and the fight is 5v5 or 5v4. This happens even when I've called out a discord target (like an isolated soldier near the front for example) and nobody kills him. My aim isn't anything amazing at longer ranges and getting up close often throws off opponents.

I'm curious as to your opinion on this.
Hey, sorry, swore I posted a reply to this, but I think the app jacked it up. I started a little rough on this one, but got better. I get that I do come up close on this one, but it was because I was trying to get the discord on the enemy so I could have both my abilities active, with the choke being around the corner at the first point, its hard to stay too far back and still get the discord if they aren't coming in because of the Roadhog was holding them back.
As far as the group up message, it doesn't happen in this particular game, because I didn't stay and actually try to group up, but 9/10 times at this low a level, I'll stay in the spawn, spaming group up, and they will still just go off on their own, and with all DPS, its hard to get a push with all 6 of us when not even two will stay back to group up. I agree completely, and better coordination could be had if I used my mic, but like I posted in the comments below, majority of people in the country I am in don't use a mic, or speak different languages. 
Thanks for the tips, and let me know if you watch the rest, I'd really appreciate it.
I do have a mic, problem is right now I am deployed, and in a country where most of the people I play with don't speak English. Beginning of every game I ask if anyone has one, and I always get nothing. 

As for aim, I feel it comes and goes, but I'm usually pretty decent at it. I am on PS4, so no KB/mouse to be that much better at. But I still will go practice some more. Thanks
I'd say it's probably not worth it. Sometimes you'll get the pick and escape, sometimes you'll trade, sometimes you'll just die. IMO the higher you get in rank, the more people will punish a Zen randomly front-lining with the tanks. Somebody will see you and callout, "Focus this Zen," and you'll get burst down almost immediately for being out of position.
I agree with Brodo00095 on this one. You don't have much reason to do this and also in most cases you could achieve the same from distance when your aim gets better. An exception are some KOTH maps, where the majority of the fights are close distance. I'd say the rule of thumb should be - if you have to decide between keeping your dps alive and killing an enemy, always keep the dps alive first and then go for the kill.
No problem man :) I was in silver too and I know what you mean, it's impossible to group six people. Just try to wait for the tanks or if there are none, wait for as many teammates as possible. Also if you find yourself doing nothing, you could always charge and spam a right click (it could be canceled with melee btw if you dont want to expose your position). Cheers!
That's a fair point. I'll definitely see how playing in the back the next few games goes.
> I'd say the rule of thumb should be - if you have to decide between keeping your dps alive and killing an enemy, always keep the dps alive first and then go for the kill.

/u/erindalc 

Also a mid-diamond Zen main. I wouldn't necessarily agree with this, I think it depends on the situation. If you're on offense and are at the start of the map or have just capped a checkpoint, it's in your favor to trade because you have spawn advantage. If you're at the second point on 2CP, or are making the final push for point C of a payload, then it's in the team's best interest to keep everyone alive.

Vice versa applies for defense. You don't want to trade early in maps/checkpoints, but if you're holding point C or the second point of 2CP, a trade is generally in your favor.
Thank you.
Yeah that makes sense.

That's something I need to keep in mind gamesense wise is spawn advantage.
You are absolutely right :) I didn't want to get in such detail as it is hard to improve one thing when focusing on too many stuff. Thanks for bringing the detailed picture too.
No problem, at least someone here says 'thank you', even though not the author :)
Raisolution, do you have any vids of your Zen play I could watch?

Are there any really good/comprehensive guides for beginners?
Hi there. I'm really sorry if this is clearly available somewhere. I've checked the resources/guides page on this sub and others and have done my own search, but I am unable to find something that really starts at the beginning and spills everything. I am terrible. 

I'm level 16, and I constantly die without having any impact on the game. I just run around confused until someone kills me. So I'm looking for some in-depth beginner's guide or something. Any help would be much appreciated. Thank you all so much!!

&nbsp;

P.S. Would anyone like to play with me?Ok before expecting to become barely decent, I 'd say there's 4 things you need to really get into :

First, go in training range and test every single hero. Not just 1 minuts but until you see what every button can do and understand what makes the hero special. You need to do it until you even know all the sounds the hero makes when he's firing /  ulting and what is the effect.

Why? because that way you will know what's coming to you in real game. You will recognize the sounds and visal effects of specific hero. You will know when or where they are dangerous and how you should react, like running away from a reaper in close range or hide from a widow on hight ground. 


Two : You need to play on every single map several times. You need to know the basic path, the side roads, the chock points, the spots to hide and the danger zone. If you get lost, separated from your team, constantly suprised by a flanker, you will die ALL THE TIME.


Three : Truely understand the rules. It sounds pretty basic but OW is not a "frag fest". You cannot survive if you don't understand why people is acting the way they do. Positioning and overall survival is easier when you know what's happening.

Four : Play, play, play. Only way to get better is to play.
In my opinion it will come with time as you get to learn the game, heroes's abilities, etc (I don't know how much you know about this). I am also sure there must be videos on Youtube and guides on Google to help you out. I am not a really good player myself but if you want I could play with you and try to help you a bit, at least as much as I can. 
Honestly, practicing is the best way to improve. Make sure you know how the points/overtime work (always get on during overtime!), stick with your team as you'll almost always die if outnumbered, and look up how to play some specific heroes. And try out some different ones and find ones that fit the way you like to play the most. Also, look at the killfeed and think about what you could have done to avoid dying but don't beat yourself up about it. I think it's best not to overthink it this early on as it's really easy to learn a bunch of information that isn't as important as these basics. Please feel free to ask us if you have any specific questions too!! Good luck, you got this.
I remember being totally overwhelmed when I started, I think some of the first things to focus on are just learning to stick with teammates or run away when outnumbered and figuring out the maps. Create a custom game for yourself and and explore the maps, you can choose which one or just get a random one. Play 3v3 in arcade a little on the side to work on using your abilities without being overwhelmed. 

Don't sweat it too much that you feel ineffective right now, OW is very simple on the surface but has a lot of depth. 
There is an arcade mode called mystery heroes. It helped me when I was still pretty new to the game because it "forced" me to play different heroes I was previously scared/disinterested about playing. And a lot of people don't take it seriously because they know people are playing heroes they're weak on/know nothing about. Just hit F1 to see your hero's abilities.
Go to "Your Overwatch" YouTube channel. They're great for beginner and intermediate level knowledge. After that u want to move on from them (this sub loves hating on them). But before then, they're absolutely phenomenal. This game is hard to learn, I highly recommend them. Just go to their archive and watch vids 
Here's the briefest possible guide. 1. You need to have mechanical skills that are reasonably appropriate for your rank 2. You need to make good decisions. 

The second point is more important. In Bronze rank you'll occasionally find players who have good enough mechanics to succeed in Plat or Diamond. Bronze generally isn't the place for players with bad mechanics. Bronze is for people who consistently make bad decisions. 


Here's the simple guide to making good decisions. Fight as a team. Focus targets as a team. If you're outnumbered, don't fight. If you don't know if you're outnumbered then you need to get better at counting. 

The bulk of the challenge in lower levels is getting people to work together, and getting people to stop making bad decisions.
Wow, thank you all so much!!
Also, if you didn't know this already, under the play section, you can go to game browser (the panel on the far right) and then click create at the top right. This will let you create a custom game on any map. You can start the game with just you (make sure you set it to invite or friends only so random strangers can't join). Then you can run around the maps freely for as long as you want (I think the game might time you out after 30 minutes). When I first started out, I spent literally about two weeks just loading up different maps and poking my nose into all the nooks and crannies. I probably spent 2-3 hours on each map this way before I finally felt even somewhat comfortable on them in actual games. You can also add in AI bots in custom games to practice your aim, or practice different hero abilities and stuff like that. There's actually a ton of settings you can adjust in custom matches (even down to hero specific adjustments) for some really cool ways to practice aim and other things. You don't need to get this complex early on, but custom games are you best friend when trying to test things out or just get more familiar with the game.

Also, try playing some matches vs the AIs (under the practice, or play-->vs AI). Start with easy or medium (hard bots have aim bot and wall hacks and are really difficult even for experienced players). These are pretty low key matches, and you can work on just getting used to how the heroes you want to play move and the abilities they have. 
Are you on PC or console? I will play Quick Play with you or the games against AI if you are on PS4 (NA).

This is my first FPS (and only the third game I've ever played in my life), so when I started a couple months ago, I was probably in a worse position than you. A few tips:

1. If you're on PS4, then don't be discouraged about dying really quickly in Quick Play because there are just a ton of "smurfs" because apparently, anyone can make a new account fairly easily. Just keep playing because eventually it won't even matter because most of the "smurfs" aren't high level anyway.

2. The first thing I did was go into the practice range and fire off each ability on each character. This taught me a bit about who I'd be fighting against, and it gave me a good idea of who to try playing first. 

3. Next, I went into the games against AI and played there. You can create a custom arcade game where you're the only real person, and everyone on both teams are bots. That way, it won't even matter how good or bad you do because it's just practice that affects no one. I only did this until I was mechanically proficient, and by that, I mean that I could hit all the buttons when I wanted to do something without having to think about which button to hit. The added benefit is that you won't get XP if there are no real players, which means you won't rank up, and when you start playing with real people, they'll know you're new based on your low level.

After that, just practice in Quick Play. 

Another thing I did was to load up maps in custom arcade games so that I could learn the maps and flank routes. Once you know the flank routes, you'll know where to watch for flankers, which helps keep you from dying more than anything... always be looking everywhere. Shoot, look around, shoot, look around, shoot, rinse, repeat.
Hey, I'd love to play with you. My bnet name is Aaron#11779. Thanks for the tips!
When I play healers, I feel like I have a hard time figuring out who to prioritize, especially with someone like Zenyatta. I think the hero has a really fun kit, but I have no clue how to use it. There's always so much going on, and it's hard to tell who even has my orb, who's low, if I should be shooting or finding targets for my orbs, etc... hahaha. It's such a busy game! Thanks for the tips!

Also concerning Zenyatta...I can't seem to hit anyone consistently with him. His orbs travel so slowly, but if I get too close to targets I feel like I die faster than them. haha
> this sub loves hating on them

For a good reason tho. Their meta predictions are often wrong. For example they thought Roadhog rework would make him better in dive meta yet it made him worse across the board. They thought Reaper Lifesteal buff wouldn't be enough yet he's a lot better now, and for a long time they thought Mccree was balanced yet he was one of the weakest heroes in the game at that time. 

Next up are their hero guides. Typically they are 10-15 min long, but after watching them I learn absolutely NOTHING. Now compare that to excellent hero guides by for example [Level 5 Pidgey](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n0IfcOecR7I&t=1s) or [Iostux](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCBPCmP5El1BqpItqCswvMkw). In contrast to just talking over some random footage in the background, these guys actually spend effort making their guides and go over all the small details you need to know for that particular hero.

I wouldn't say Your Overwatch is as bad as people make it out to be, but why spend time watching a mediocre YT channel while you can  watch something better? Here are some of my recommendations:

I already mentioned [Iostux](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCBPCmP5El1BqpItqCswvMkw) earlier, but his channel is pretty much the golden grail of educational OW. Unfortunately some of his videos have clickbaity titles, but still the content is really good.

[Skyline](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCDrfc_LU0llSRI7icBFoBnw) is again another good educational YTer, but the quality suffers a bit due to him stretching some of his videos to 10+ min for that ad revenue.

[KarQ](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCQH4V9PiY_eLo4Ihr1tWCwQ) focusses mainly on support, but he also has good general guides out there.

[Overwatchdojo](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCYbJ6SGufekKMgzt42Dr1RQ) is just good, not much to say there.

Last but not least, [Terioth](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCUvMcrN3P2gfYpfwR6xivgA) makes helpful 2-3 min videos for EACH hero sharing 5 tips per video (some if not all heroes have multiple videos).


Oh, the other thing I would add is that Coach Seksi has really great videos that explain positioning once you get to the point that you're ready for that. I'd recommend watching those as soon as you are mechanically halfway decent.
Alright, I'll add you when I can, hope I'll be able to help ^^
No problem! With Zenyatta, I don't play him too much but I can give you some pointers. I tend to use the harmony orb on whoever has the least health/is in danger, and discord on whoever the team is already engaging with to make them die faster. I say that because ideally your teammates will target who you put the orb on, but that doesn't always happen at lower levels/ranks. If you call out who you've discorded that could help with that tho. As for his aim, one tip is you might want to charge up the shot as an enemy rounds a corner, releasing when they come into sight. If you practice you'll be quite deadly as he can do a lot of damage. And definitley try to keep your distance, let the enemies be focused on your teammates.

As for keeping track of what's happening, the status of your teammates, and what you should be doing in a given moment, that will improve across all heroes in time. I felt the same way when I started, everything happens so fast! But you get used to it. 
Among those, Skyline is my favorite. I hear u man. That being said, I still believe (and am genuinely awaiting your argument) that Your Overwatch is the most beginner friendly, approachable, and practical place to go first. Have you ever taught someone something? I seriously don't mean that aggressively, I'm genuinely wondering. I'm an MD, have taught, and have spent so much time in educational settings, and I'm in Masters (in OW, not the degree lol). I've watched all those guys and you're totally right, they're significantly better than Your Overwatch. But IMO not for a complete beginner. Iostux's charisma is on the level of Ben Stein (iostux if u see this, you're the man, don't mean this as an insult) and I seriously can't imagine learning the basics of the game from him. Maybe some could, but does that seem fun or engaging? Idk. Like I said, you're right, those guys are better, but IMO/experience your overwatch is a better place to start as an absolute beginner and ease your way into things. I think the other channels aren't very good at teaching beginners, other than Skyline who IMO is best all-around. Like at the end of the day, when a beginner is learning, the material is not that complicated, so the most engaging/approachable channel wins out, just from a logical standpoint. It's actually comical how much "experienced" players like to dissuade noobs from watching a channel that's literally designed to help noobs learn the very basics of the game. I'm not bothered by their meta predictions bc I don't rely on them for that...it seems that anyone that used them to learn reached a point in their natural progression of learning the game in which they realize YO no longer serves their purposes. Like, is it at all relevant if you learn something from watching their hero guides? No, lol.  OP is new to the game bro. Advanced positioning guides are going to hinder his progress if anything. But OP, just peep all of this guy's recommendations, and see which u like the most. Cheers though TharTV, I'm looking forward to your response. Do you think any of those guys are better for complete noobs? Do you not think those channels are a little offputting for ppl new to the game due to how advanced and straight up bland most of their videos/styles are?


Hey, thanks for all the tips. I'll check his videos out too! I am on PC. Wish they had cross platform!
I get where you are coming from though. Some people may like entertaining content like YO/Stylosa, but at the same time, I think many people (at least speaking for myself) are also interested in watching people that really know what they are talking about. 

You're probably right about Iostux, he's pretty lazy when it comes to his presentation (for example he just reads his slides word by word and his mic makes (or at least used to) a lot of unnecessary noise). I still however think that KarQ, Terioth and Overwatchdojo are informative yet still entertaining, and in case of the latter their presentation is actually really good. 

>Like, is it at all relevant if you learn something from watching their hero guides? 

The problem is that they call their guides "Advanced"  although they are not. Idk how to describe it, but if you watch any good guide like this [D.Va guide](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n0IfcOecR7I&lc=z12bc5xp3yn2v303l22mf13z5tqssjosw.1498587490681349) by L5 Pidgey and compared it to your typical Advanced YO guide, the difference is quite apparent I think. 

After all their wrong meta predictions/hero assessments and after watching [this dissection video by Iostux](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fZBJv6bIvrk&t=2s), I can't help but be extremely skeptical about their content. 

One more thing. When you're in the practice range, go to the side where there's just a single bot just hanging out by itself. Test each character's weapon range. This will help you more than anything because you'll automatically know how far away you need to be from another character and how close your character needs to be. It will also help you figure out which fights to take on and when to retreat. For example, don't be the Zen taking on a reaper up close. Don't be the reaper shooting at Zen from 40m away. I see a lot of new players who don't bother to learn weapon range, and they see lots of eliminations in the stats, but they're just putting in a couple pellets while an ally actually confirms the kill.
I completely agree man, and you're right. Can also tell your game knowledge is high. Hit me up if u want to play lol Option#11208
Just like you I'm also in masters (at least with my highest acc, other one is in diamond) and play on EU servers (tried NA and it's really nice except for the unbearable lag issues atm). Will add you to FL later :)

Why is my aim great without warm up, then slowly gets worse the longer I play/warmup?
I have this weird issue, but when I just wake up in the morning, and jump straight into a game my aim is amazing, but after a few games it just slowly gets worse and worse to the point where its not worth playing. Same happens when i go on holiday for a few days, come back, my aim is the best its ever been, then slowly deteriorates.

If i start off with a warm up, same thing happens, at the start my aim is great, but slowly towards the end of the warm up, my aim is just bad.

Does anyone know why this is, and how I can fix it?I should note a difference between warm-up and training, because I feel this may help your situation. This may sound irrelevant but please bear with me, I think there's a catch here.

A training session includes activities which force you. These activities are hard and tiring if done for an extended period at once. Playing tryhard aim hero, Osu, trying to 1 clip all bots in the arena in less than 20 seconds with tracer, flawless headtracking while crouch and ADAD spam, headshotting all 6 different bots with 1 mcree clip in less than 5 seconds. These are somewhat difficult and if you do these for a long period of time, they will tire you and your aim will get worse at the end. If you queue right after a training session, your performance will suffer.

In contrast, a warm-up session should not be difficult. It must feel just like how you feel in a match. It should just help you get your rust off, get that coordination back real quick. A quickplay session, a deathmatch fun, some mystery heroes, an ana paintball session or fooling around in the training area. These are warm-up. These are not as tiresome as training. You can do these as long as your "gaming stamina", which is the energy that lets you keep playing in general, wears off. 

If you train, you need to rest afterwards. If you warm-up, you are ready to play. You do not hit the gym right before the marathon; you stretch and do a brief jog to get that blood flowing before the event. 

From the stuff you posted, it occurred to me that you may inadvertently be "training" instead of warming up.

Does that help you?
I have the same issue sometimes! It's the same for playing the guitar, btw ;D

Having read some books about behavioral psychology, I think it may have something to do with glucose levels in the brain maybe. I think it's a good idea to warm up until your aim gets bad (thats your true aim), to only play for a few straight hours and generally just rest and eat well.

Meaning maybe a nap at noon and lots of vegetables and no sugary stuff. That punches your blood sugar all over the place. If you want to really rock for a short time, it's great tho ;D

It's just speculation in the end, but fact is your food is having a ton of influence over your cognitive functions.
You need to take a break and relax, specifically your eyes.  In between games walk around or look out through a window or something and focus on something further away. 
Don't focus on your aim...  Focusing on your aim puts you in your head.  Focus on killing the enemy before they kill you or anyone on your team.  Adding those elements of urgency and importance gives you direction without pressure.  
Whats your sens? I think the more supple movement after warming up and the actual ingame stress might affect your ideal sens.

my 46cm/360 feels a bit too slow when warming up, but when warmed up if feels fine for the most part. Even so there are days where I feel just the tiniest bit too slow or too fast, and Ill just adjust my sens with 0.02 up or down to make up for that. 
Decision fatigue would be my guess.
You need a break. Your anxiety, stress, and brain are getting in the way of muscle memory. You're thinking too hard about doing well and you choke.


Go get a glass of water after warming up, maybe some fresh air. Come back relaxed.
That's like asking why you become slower after running for 3 hours.
relax your eyes, take a quick break between matches when you notice it. Stretch your fingers and wrists once in a while. It's just like anything else repetitive. It's very easy to fall into a rhythm when you're doing anything like that. Your eyes stop noticing smaller cues, your ears stop paying as much attention to secondary noises, etc. 

Taking a break every once in a while and taking your mind, fingers, ear, and eyes off of that focus even if it's just for 30 seconds will help.

Think about it like this. One of the reasons we are taught to "actively scan" when we're driving is to help prevent highway hypnosis. Even though you're looking ahead, you're awake, you're alert, and you're paying attention, if you steadily just watch the road and lines ahead of you you'll fall into a sort of "daze". 
Ever drove somewhere and then realize you don't remember the drive? When things become committed to muscle memory we tend to react instead of act because that muscle memory becomes our natural reactions. 

Try it out and I think you'll find it helps mitigate that. 
I'm like that, usually is because I try to win to hard. I get triggered by every mistake I see made by me and others in the game...

What I do in order to keep relaxed and still do great in the game:

1. After each match I do 10 Squats + 10 push ups + 10 pull ups while I wait for a match (I'm kinda crazy about exercising XD)

2. After 3 matches I go to my pet and play with her a while

3. If I lose 3 in a row, I do other things, probably I'll create an FFA map and call friends to enjoy some murdering <3
Same with me. Another thing that affects my aim is room temperature. Too cold and I switch off mcree for Winston. 
For me personally it's the same. Nerves always get me. Was doing great yesterday after a looong break in FFA deathmatch. Then I got to first place at 18 kills and I started being all jittery and I ended up 3rd with 18 kills because I couldn't hit shit. 
You are probably playing looser and freer when you start up.
As you play, you're getting more stressed and tight - which is worsening your play.  Chances are, you're taking past games into the next game and it is adversely impacting your performance.
Everyone has a differing optimal level of arousal (sports psychology). Athletes/competitors aim to mediate this level constantly to allow for optimal performance. You most likely function more effectively at the lower end of stress/arousal. Take a break eat a kit-kat!
You are probably starting out engaged and alert, then get mentally fatigued and switch to autopilot.

It's the same thing with any skill, if you can practice for more than 45-90 minutes at a time, you're not practicing hard enough.

When you notice your play deteriorating, stop and do something else for an hour or two. After fatigue you're just building bad habits.
It is REALLY hard to tell when you are losing focus and intensity. Try and consciously double down on it. Try a routine, e.g. every time you die (just because that happens consistently) - do something to remind yourself to stay present and focused. 

Most people just gradually lose focus and don't even notice. But if you're really "manually" forcing yourself to be focused, when you are done after a significant time playing you should REALLY feel it - you'll be exhausted. 
Fatigue
I have a similar issue, in my case it's because of strain problems in my right arm.  You simply need to take a break and stretch until your arm muscles relax. 
Don't know if this applies to you, but it helped me in a similar situation so I'll share. My issue is that as I continue playing, my motions become less concious and more on autopilot. I start aiming with my wrist instead of my arm and I become really inconsistent with my shots. What helps me is to focus on making each movement of my arm concious instead of automatic. Focusing on each deliberate action dramatically improves my aim.

Hope this helps you
Stamina is a thing.
Crap same exact thing happens to me. 
I feel this so hard I was playing Ana today and started to lose my flow.
I came back from a week long vacation and jumped right into a quick game with no warmup. I usually have a consistent routine consisting of Aim Hero drills and Training Ground drills. But without any of that I just ran around like a freaking pro slaughtering everyone with precision aim and was just baffled. Then the longer I played and more intense I got the worse my aim was. So just staying relaxed and calm and "uncaring" seems to be the best way. 
"I get tired when I work all day, what is wrong with me?"
as a junkrat main I'm sorry but I can't relate 
It's just you overthinking 
Take more breaks. Your brain, eyes, and reflexes will all deteriorate playing a bunch in a row. 


Late to the party, but hopefully this helps you anyway OP...

I don't think this is psychological as most people are suggesting. At least not entirely. I expect your muscles are just physically fatiguing. Not so much that you notice it, but a lot of the little muscles around your wrist and hand that are responsible for fine motor control can start to weaken without you feeling it.

It happens in golf as a classic example. A golfer with bad technique is relying on these stabilising muscles for their swing. It's fine at first, but these little muscles fatigue quickly and the swing deteriorates. Good golf technique minimises the use of these little guys, instead relying more on main muscle groups. They don't tire as easily so the swing stays strong.

As for fixing it, that's tricky. I know nothing about mouse 'technique'. Upping your sens might reduce movement required, but it might be the really small accurate movements that are tiring you. So perhaps lowering sens and trying to rely more on elbow could work. Either way - experimenting with different techniques could help, but taking frequent breaks to let your hand recover definitely will.
Complacency 
> I should note a difference between warm-up and training

This a really good and important distinction, thanks for bringing it up. I feel it's best to "train" as a session all itself without competitive play after.
mind blown!  great clarification.
Seems very plausible, although I don't think you should be all too worn out after half an hour already, even when training. If it's wholly about exhaustion there should be about 1-2 hours of playing involved at least (imo). So I think raw physical constitution of the player is one factor here.
I noticed this during the crux of my undergrad degree. what i ate for breakfast had huge impacts on how well i could do homework. trying to eat right is hard though :(
I think your 0.02 is so small it's almost impossible to perceive.

funny enough I think you may have some point because it might be a nice placebo effect. 

Fun fact, the placebo effect still works even if you know that it's a placebo. 
fantastic. 2 downvotes for this guy, but "relax your eyes" gets a thumbs up. Overwatch University...  
Honestly from what I've read on here you're better off looking in the CS:GO community for your aim tips. The most likely reason this is happening is that your sens is too high and you have to strain yourself to aim. This should never happen if you stay relaxed.
Exactly this in my opinion, my go-to is warming up, heading outside to smoke some herb and chill, then hitting the ranked grind hard. 

Edit: Just finished up the routine again, can confirm it's an effective strategy. 
Second the water. Food too if you're not eating and skip a meal. You're body has physical needs even if you're sitting in a chair.
Lol, I'll try beering up now before games xD
People really forget about amazing it is to smoke outside opposed to inside. Getting that fresh air combined with a fresh high is 10x better imo 
Cold hands is my bane too.
It depends on what your in game sense is already. If it's at 10, probably not. Mine is at 1.15 and I can notice a difference each time I lower my sense by .02
Man I play so bad when I'm high. Props to you for pulling it off
dude WEED
I miss smoking outside :( I just moved into a new apartment, and there's nowhere to do it safely. I used to go lay in my hammock by the creek in my backyard and just smoke and chill for forever.

But living alone makes it worth it, I guess. It's nice not having roommates.
Dudeeee, thats my thing lol.
Absolutely man, add a craft beer into the mix and you're off to the races
Fck air conditioning. :(
0.02 / 1.15 x 100 = 1.739%

you can feel ~1.74% difference? that's quite impressive. 

what is your dpi? 

lets just assume your DPI is 3000 

1.15 sens,  3000 dpi = 40.158 cm/360 

1.13 , 3k dpi = 40.869 cm/360 

so you can feel 0.711 cm  difference in a 360? you could be a brain surgeon. 

assume 2k dpi and your difference in ~1.1cm /360. 

I seriously doubt what you're saying. 


I've got 2000+ hours of playing CS while toasted, I guess practice makes perfect haha
For a lot of people it helps them focus
My first few games are better high. Then about game 4 or 5 I get significantly worse. It helps to play heros that require minimal aim, like Winston. I play a pretty mean high Junkrat too.
Weed just adds to my anxiety. I would play 10x worse if I smoked before playing. 
LMAO
Vaping has significantly less smell, and the "smoke" clears away much faster.
You should be able to get away with vaping on your deck or even inside if you prefer.
Get an apartment with a big terrace, I have a great view over the city, two lean back chairs and a 32m2 space for all my desalting needs. 
No wonder half my team is always high with you two smoking it up every game. Lol.

Except for with me, the times when I get people who have burned before a match seem to have repeated the "heading outside to smoke some herb and chill" step more than once or twice...
Hell yeah bruh, look forward to that shit everyday. 
Brain surgeon? Seriously! you belittle me by assuming I can't do basic math, or realize it would be less than 2 percent? 

Believe what you'd like, but I'm not going to waste any more my breath in reply to such a disdainful comment. 
It's called context-dependent memory. If you learned something while in a certain condition or place, it's actually easier to recall when you are in the same context. In this case, being high might just make you a better player because all that practice is easier to recall.
weed withdrawl sucks
Yeah I tend to overfocus, like tunnel vision style. Totally wrecks my game sense.
The comedown is when you get drowsiest.
Oh I can get away with smoking inside, which is what I do. It's fine, I just miss the chilling outside in a hammock getting high, it was super relaxing.

And I could probably get away with vaping on my deck, but I've already been arrested once several years ago and it just seems like a risk not worth taking to me (it doesn't help that I share a deck with neighbors).
That's in the works, but I'd need to get a raise or two first (or a second job). Living on your own on $12 an hour is kinda difficult. It's sad that that's almost double minimum wage and I still struggle to make ends meet some months.
Lol i feel like it helps me focus, obvi it keeps me calm, i usually try to make my team laugh and shit, my aim is usually a little better when im faded too. I usually try to fit a FFA match inbetween every comp game aswell!
>seem to have repeated the "heading outside to smoke some herb and chill" step more than once or twice...

They're so high they forget they just smoked like 15 minutes before.

It's like a roofie-circle, but with weed.
no you might be a brain surgeon because determining the difference of 7 millimeters is really difficult to do and requires a lot of talent. 

I wasn't sarcastically mocking you. 

You're very melodramatic.

you can really tell the difference between 7mm when moving over 40cm?
For me my macro gets better my my micro gets worse 
Min here is like 7.25. I'm making 9 and split rent three ways and am still broke as fuck... 
Haha. That's okay!

A nice dark imperial stout before a match often helps steady my hands when I play Widowmaker. So I feel ya, man!
They get anxious about playing competitive, so they smoke pot, then they get anxious because of the pot, ^so ^they ^smoke ^more ^thinking ^it's ^the ^anxiety ^about ^playing ^competitive, ^^so ^^they ^^feel ^^more ^^anxious, ^^^so ^^^they ^^^smoke ^^^more ^^^thinking ^^^it's ^^^the ^^^anxiety ^^^about ^^^playing ^^^competitive, ^^^^so ^^^^they ^^^^feel ^^^^more ^^^^anxious, ^^^^^so ^^^^^they ^^^^^smoke ^^^^^more...
Fine. Your right it was melodramatic, but I'm hangry and having a shitty day. 

I think the human body and brain is a lot more perceptive than you apparently. You haven't really provided more of an argument than saying that I could be a brain surgeon with that level of sensitivity. 

Ok maybe I could be a brain surgeon. Who knows.

The human body can detect very slight differences in temperature. Say +-3c?

Well, based on your logic of difference  divided by absolute temperature, that's slightly more than 1% at around 20c. I don't think your argument is compelling. 
It's the same here, hence the almost double...but yeah. I could be fine if I either sucked it up and found some roommates, or moved to a worse part of town. but I'm already basically in the worst part of town I'm ok with living in.

It just makes me sad to realize that so many jobs want to pay you minimum wage, with no regard for how impossible it is to live at that pay rate. I once overheard the owner of the restaurant franchise I used to work at talking with one of his friends about something, and I heard him say "it would suck, but if you could force yourself to live on 50,000 a year and save the rest, you could...." And it took everything I had not to jump into the conversation I was eavesdropping on and be like "motherfucker, not a single one of your goddamn employees even makes that much! And you're talking about how living off only 50k would suck!" At the time I was making maybe 16k a year and living with 3 roommates so I could afford rent. 

So I feel you. Being broke SUCKS. I'm super grateful I finally have a job that is trying to compensate me fairly. Without it, I wouldn't be living by myself, which is one of the best decisions I've ever made. Living with others really stresses me out, and since getting my own place, I've noticed I'm way calmer and happier. Keep working at it! You'll eventually find something to make your life a little better :)
What's your favorite brew?
The human body can detect very slight differences in temperature. Say +-3c?

+-3c of 20 is not 1%. 

you should check your math. 

3/20 = 15% 

1% is 0.2c, 20/100 = 0.2

its 20c |+-0.2c|

which I would also say is quite difficult to determine the difference of. 
True. I'm worried that living alone would make me depressed. But I'm living with some roommates and sometimes I think depressed would be better. 
https://www.beeradvocate.com/beer/profile/1125/3342/
Overall? That's tough to answer. But, I am a huge fan of Founder's Breakfast Stout. I like coffee/chocolate beer with higher ABV's.

EDIT: Although, the other night I was drinking a couple cans of Yeti Imperial Stout and playing Winston for my own amusement. Helped with the immersion.
He said absolute temperature. 20 degrees Celsius is 293 Kelvin, so 3 degrees Celsius is around 1% of that
Dude. Kelvin. In on my phone so it sucks to type out a bunch of math.

Kelvin is Celsius plus 272.

Absolute temperature refers to kelvin. 
Do you already struggle with depression? As someone who definitely does, I can say that it has helped tremendously for me to live alone. I'm a serious introvert though, it's not uncommon for my friends to not see me for weeks (except on battlenet, but that's different for some reason). So going from never being truly alone to having it available whenever I choose is like a massive security blanket that helps me stay happy.

Plus, my friends are still there, and happy to have me over whenever, should I feel unfit to be alone (which does happen sometimes...some days I just feel like I may do something dumb like swallow a bunch of pills). 

So it's not all bad! It's very liberating. I'd see if you can find a 6 month or even a month to month lease and try it out. Worst case, you go back to living with roommates. Best case, you've discovered a new awesome lifestyle!
As a Widowmaker main, I approve!
hahahaaahahahaha
 
Sorry I didn't expect him to change units to disingenuously prove a point. 

why are you changing units. 

you could use 20K and the a 1% difference between that. 



I'd love to do that. I don't think I could afford it. Also, most place around here seem to be only month to month after you've stayed a year. 

How do we do our jobs + protect our healers from flankers?
I'm an Ana main + flex player in Diamond. I've been noticing more and more that during my matches (as a healer, mainly Ana), there are two issues that come from not having a specific "Help" button, but which can be remedied through paying attention.

*1) Teammates that need healing, and are often completely out of my LOS.*

They don't retreat when they need healing as they "expect" me to be ready to heal them when needed, regardless of how many walls are between me and them. Every healer in OW needs some kind of LOS to heal their teammates. Ana especially. However, this brings up an issue which leads to the second point.

*2) I get flanked, and die way too often to good flankers.*

This can be totally avoided, regardless of the flankers skill, for the most part. As Ana, I try to stick next to at least one other player for protection, most often a tank. However, I'll find that very frequently that since my teammates are way too focused on the enemies, they don't even realize I'm nowhere near them.

So I often end up alone, and due to Ana's meager damage, if I miss my sleep dart, I'm dead. If I land my sleep dart, well I can't even take out a full health Tracer, so I'm probably still dead.

**So this brings me to my question,**

Since there is no "I need help." button for healers, how do the other 4-5 players on the team manage to pay attention to their healer, and protect them when they are being flanked, meanwhile, doing their job of killing the enemy team? (Including situations like, solo-healing and multiple healers). 

*I appreciate any and all answers! :)*

P.S. I understand this has many variables, including the skill and game sense of the healer, the skill and game sense of other said players, and general communication through speech. But, just as I've been in teams where I can't even reach the points because enemy flankers are just waiting for me to walk back alone; I've been on teams where at least one team mate is always at the ready and sticks somewhat close to me to makes sure I stay alive. In the latter situation, I can easily manage to solo heal my teammates as any healer (except maybe Zen/Lucio), depending on the enemy comp/skill). So this is definitely something everyone would benefit from learning to execute without having to ask for it. Including myself.Well, first of all your second support should always be the first one to look after you. If for some reason this doesn't happen or you're solo-healing, call out someone specific to watch your back. The specific part is really important, in many parts of overwatch (and life really). You know the bystander effect? It's real and noticeable. Saying: 'guys, there is a tracer constantly killing me, help me out', will usually result in everyone thinking: 'yeah, someone should help her'. Asking roadhog or mccree or whoever specifically to help is more useful most of the time. Same with asking for a better comp: ask specific players to swap. Just make sure you never sound like you blame them, that just makes people defensive. Just make a friendly request from one person to another, most people are reasonable enough and want to help, if you ask nicely. If not, well, nothing will help.
  

> If I land my sleep dart, well I can't even take out a full health Tracer

On this point specifically, practice the shoot -> nade -> shoot + melee combo. Nade can be thrown between the two primary shots without slowing their rhythm; melee can come immediately after the second shot (you want to practice getting the melee to follow up the shot as soon as possible). You start the combo just as the vic is getting up after sleep wears off naturally, their recovery animation is extended that way which should let you get the whole sequence done.

The above is for 200hp heroes, for tracer you can kill her with just shoot -> nade -> melee which is much faster, all those attacks can be executed immediately after each other without any wait time.
Tracer, Genji, and to a lesser extent, Sombra, will forever be Ana's primary counters. Winston and D.Va are secondary counters. 

If your team doesn't peel for you, running to them for help doesn't work, and asking them via mic to help you fails, then it's pretty much your team's fault for not covering for you. Deathball works great for Ana against a dive comp.

Genji isn't that big of a deal and Sombra isn't common enough to be an issue. The biggest issue is probably when the other team runs a good Tracer. Peeling can still fail if their Tracer is good: any skilled Tracer can just dive straight into you even within a huge crowd, one-clip you, and then escape.

McCree and D.Va are probably the best means of getting cover against Tracer, so stick near them. Lucio, Soldier, Orisa, Winston and Zarya are decent as well. If you don't have any of those heroes on your team, then some other DPS heroes can work too.

Staying near your other healer (either Zen or Mercy) to pocket them for a pocket back in return helps *a bit* with stalling for time. It won't save you entirely, but it can help you out in a pinch if you have no other means left. Lucio is decent too but you won't be able to rely on his slow heal for very long, so plan an escape.
> 1) Teammates that need healing, and are often completely out of my LOS.

Don't sacrifice your positioning to save someone who you have no chance of healing. If they flame you in chat for not healing all game let them know that you need LOS and also need to remain in a safe position. If they are tilting you, mute them right away.

> 2) I get flanked, and die way too often to good flankers.

If the enemy team is running a heavy dive comp or they have a flanker that is giving you trouble, move in closer to your tank line. The enemy flanker is not going to be as willing to dive into the middle of your team for you as they would if you are separated. 

> Since there is no "I need help." button for healers, how do the other 4-5 players on the team manage to pay attention to their healer, and protect them when they are being flanked, meanwhile, doing their job of killing the enemy team? (Including situations like, solo-healing and multiple healers).

This is just game sense. Be aware of what comp the enemy team is running and what they are likely to do. If you haven't seen the Tracer in a while they are likely flanking or setting up a combo with their pulse bomb. It's the tank/DPS job to be aware that the enemy is giving your healers a hard time and it's the support players job to move to a position that enables their team to assist them. 

You will have games where your team is able to deal with flankers easily and you will have games where your team appears to be a pack of race horses with blinders on. Just have to roll with the punches and focus on improving your own play. 
point 1 and 2 are entirely up to your positioning tbh
Good point! 
I should ask this question in both situations. If there are one support, or two supports. 

Excellent advice. That point could also be translated to the beginning of the match. Asking a specific player to look out for you will make that point from the very beginning.

However, how can you do this, for example, in something like quickplay? Or for players who don't necessarily have mics?

And also, from the "protectors" point of view, what should they do?
That is a very good technique. I usually use it, but since it's a little difficult to pull off sometimes since there is a delay for the punch, which means Tracer's usually have enough time to recall away.

Maybe I'm still not great at that yet though. 
In quick play? Forget it. Might as well ask people to help you in FFA deathmatch. You can ask them of course, but don't expect great results.
 
No mic isn't really an issue, some people just don't like talking in game, doesn't mean they're not listening or trying to cooperate. One or two people organizing the team is usually enough. Just ask others to use the agree command or type. 

If the protector gets asked to help the support, they should hang back a bit, do their usual stuff, but stay attentive to the sounds of a flanker attacking the backline. They don't have to babysit necessarily, just be aware if there is a Tracer or something flanking around.    
Pretty sure the second version for tracer (no second shot) should be doable before she can react, as long as you let her wake up herself.
Haha, it's worth a shot. QP is known for uncooperative players, but no one likes to lose. You'll often see QP matches start with 6 DPS, and end with a 2+2+2 comp. 

Ok cool, so if you manage to coordinate a designated "protector" before the match starts, then typing is good enough (no mic necessary, although useful)? 

What heroes do you think would be most effective at this particular role? 
Oh, so letting them wake up on their own takes longer than waking them up with damage? 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xS8Fisltrbg
Oh wow, I didn't realize.. That's great!

Thank you for the video :)

Tips for junkrat and roadhog
I want to main junkrat and roadhog I used to main them but then forgot about them and began to main dva and mercy roadhog and junkrat have changed and I want to know good positions good ways to use ult effectively and other helpful tips thank you in advance.You shouldnt worry that much about Ulting with Roadhog. He builds Ult quick so let it rip.  
Best times :
-Want to push a big crowd that are right in your face
-Hold enemy(ies) against a wall or in a corner (this allows you to keep pumping damage with no pushback
- To negate an enemy Ult or priority enemy (high charge zarya or nano boosted rein)
  Nothing gives me more pleasure than taking that ulting winston and hold him in a corner or straight in the air.  It takes him much longer to build his than yours so its a trade in your favor 
Against a deathball with road you will be able to offensively ult but be careful deathball can easily punish a hog with the hitscans they run.

Hog whatever is available and break shields this takes a while to get down. To defensive and youll get mowed to aggresive and youll feed uncontrollably. They key is to be a bit of both. A presence.

As for dive comp youll normally play midline frontish as TaB will sustain you but dont get to iverzelous if they have a zen. Your hook will be 9 out of 10 times used to counter a initiation on your supports. Monkey dives? Hook him. Gengji ults near you supports? Whole hog. Everyone bum rushes your team? Whole hog.

Your ability to land hooks will decide if they are gonna focus you or not. If your focused this is good. Your team can punish them while you sustain via megas and TaB. Youll be expected to preform teetering sub 300hp. 

Any and all attempts thrown at your healers will require you to peel them. This is critical. If they full dive and you peel supress enough to drag it out they will crumble. Or should.

Also remember tab is very valuable for soldier pharah mccree reaper. Dont spam it if you know a fight is coming and you feel your about to be the focus.

Other then that get good at your hook combo. Always peel winston if he initiates onto healers and try to demech d.va if they are at a standstill to keep momentumn in your favor.
Good advice, but using hog's ult for kills is rather situational.

Many people accuse roadhog of having a useless ult, it's weak for scoring kills but that's not its real purpose - it's really his main zoning tool. People probably overlook this because he was traditionally played as a dps and not really at all as a tank.

Just as zen is a pretty weak healer via his main abilities but makes up for it with a massive team-healing ult, roadhog as a tank has poor main abilities for creating space, but a brilliant ult for this purpose. Throw everyone off the objective with it at key moments. If they're walled in and can't be thrown out, they're simply killed instead.
Yea I totally agree with you, thats why I usually use it to removing a high priority enemy (ulting winstons and genjis or nano boosted players)  the goal isnt to kill them but just disrupt.   We agree here


From console to pc
I'm currently a console genji/tracer player who can flex pick. I'm diamond/master on console and I just recently bought a pc. Any tips on pc overwatch?

I'm new to pc gaming so tips would really help thanks.I was a gold player on ps4 with around 100 hours and just made the switch to pc a few days ago, which I'm mostly a pc gamer so idk why I didnt in the first place. But its definitely more fast paced because everyone can control their hero better. Also unlike console you MUST pay attention for widows, some widows have crazy good aim on pc and will wreck shit. But overall everyone has better aim and after some practice you will too. Now one big thing that surprised me was I placed at like 2230 sr and currently at like 2280. On ps4 I'm at like 1600 in thr current season lol. But I feel like I'm much better with a mouse and keyboard than controller. By the time u get to 25 for comp you'll put in enough qp time to get thr hang of controls and fine tune them to work for you. Also people actually try in competitive and you'll get a good team comp like 9/10 games and many more people use mics, and seem to be less kids playing which is always nice. But you'll like it, overwatch feels much better on pc (plus blizz doesnt give two shits anout console ow) 
Not really. Aim will be the transition you have to make.

From the enemy you need to avoid walking in straight lines. Youll need to strafe a lot and be cautious as good players will land a majority of their shots.

Basically watch out the time to kill is smaller due to better control of their weapon.

Have fun you wont look back.
Some settings that are recommended.

1. When you start playing on PC make sure that you turned of mouse acceleration in the windows settings. 

2. Find a good mouse sensitivity for you. There are so many guides on YouTube.

3. Turn of V-sync in the overwatch settings. (v-sync limits the framerate to 60. Higher input lag.)

I can't give you details about the gameplay side because I'm not sure what are the big differences.

Hope you understand my bad English:D

I'm going to go the physical route and tout the importance of PROPER POSTURE!  You don't want to wreck your wrists, back, and neck for the rest of your life by playing video games sitting in an improper position.  Skyline has a great video going over [proper posture](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vG_3bS3ftVM) .  Mostly, keep your wrists elevated, do not rest them on the edge of the desk or on one of those gel supports (those can do more damage than good).  Also, make sure your monitor(s) are elevated to a high level so you have to sip upright to look straight at them.  There are some other things, and definitely watch Skyline's video and do some research on proper computer posture.  It can feel a little uncomfortable at first, but your body will thank you years later when you dont have to wear wrist braces 24/7. 
In terms of PC hardware, if you have a 144hz monitor, make sure you're constantly above 144 FPS, make sure V-sync is off as it causes input lagg. 

You also need to enable 144hz in your display settings too if you haven't done that already (Right-click Desktop > Display settings > Display adapter properties > Monitor tab > Set Screen refresh rate to 144 Hertz).

In terms of using a mouse a keyboard, just keep playing the game and you'll get used to the game more and more. You reached diamond/master on console because you're able to keep learning and teaching yourself to get to that level and it'll be the same on PC, except you already have a lot of game sense and just need to develop your mechanics back up again.

Some other stuff which helped me is lower my sensitivity (I use 800 DPI and 4 sens in-game) and have plenty of mouse space too.
Can u tell me how big are the difference in the team comps between PC and console? 
I think a pharah is extremely powerful on console. Is it?
shes super strong on pc as well, shes in a good chunk of the games ive played. Oh McCree is really strong too, at least in higher ranks, mccree was hard on console becaue of aim like widow, but super strong on pci feel like overallthers good team comps, 2 2 2 is pretty common. hanzo is pretty decent too. like widows are able to snipe me while running around as lucio, never had that shit on console. 
I think in low ranks, she's better on pc than console. Low ranked console hitscans have aim assist (or atleast they should for hitscan), and PC players dont have aim assist. This means that the aim assist for console players helps exponentially more compared to the superior MnK aiming. However, if your team has no one good at hitscan, don't make them run hitscan. A bad hitscan is a semi immobile target for a pharah who doesnt have to directly hit all her shots. A decent tracer is still a bit of a problem for the enemy team. 

Why are this season's placements so wonky?
**Context:** My friend doesn't really play this game and he started playing ranked for the first time seriously in S5. He went from gold to plat towards the end of the season. I played sparingly in S5 and went from 2500 to 3000.

**Question:** We both decided to do placements solo. He went 4-8 (2 of them were DC losses) and somehow placed 3061, which is 530 points higher than his season end last year. I went 3-6-1 and placed 2975 which was 51 points lower than my season end last year. How did he manage to hit a higher SR than my season end despite never hitting plat for the first time last season (he was silver-gold in all other seasons and didn't even finish placements in another one)? For me, I've always hovered around high plat (2900+) to low diamond every season since season 2. In my placements, I was playing with high plat to master level players (from last season) and yet, I placed below my season end.There is the visible rank everyone achieves, and then their hidden matchmaking rank (MMR). These usually differ, sometimes in drastic amounts. These used to (and maybe still do) determine your SR gains and losses per game, to some degree, which is why you may have a time where you are always winning more than you're losing, such as if your MMR is grandmasters but you decayed to diamond. As for placements, your hidden MMR used to not affect placements much, as blizzard was basing the placements finish on last season's end SR. However, this time around blizzard from what I can tell has changed it so you place exactly at or at least much closer to where your hidden MMR says you should be.
Your friend is just simply better than you.
Probably he was carrying his teams super hard even when losing...

The game also have an secret MMR that is the base for the new SR  at the start of S6

And, if the game went wrong, his SR will decay a bit by each loss/win (will lose more than win SR peer loss/win) and he will end on his truth place
Posted this on /r/Overwatch : I went 8-2 on my main and got placed at 3160, a little higher than where I finished. On my alt account I went 5-5 and placed at 3650. Almost 600 higher than finish sr and 500 higher than the career high. For some reason it decided to put me in a masters game in the beginning. I won that and maintained a 50% win rate so it placed me there.

edit: the thread with screens [https://www.reddit.com/r/overwatch/comments/6y0r8b](https://www.reddit.com/r/overwatch/comments/6y0r8b)
Won 3/10 last season,placed 1800. They changed placements this season. I won 8/10 this season and placed 1800. I'm not shit, apparently my subconscious mind just likes being silver. Played my ass off too, and felt great winning all those games. Pretty disheartening at the end. But I guess that's good, time to get better.
I'm happy they let me continue where my last season ended. Ended at 2426 and now got placed at 2500. 7 wins, 3 losses. 
I placed almost 700SR higher than S5 ending SR on one of my accounts, and 200SR higher on my other two accounts. 9-1, 9-1, and 4-6 win-loss respectively. Interesting how it worked out. 
finished 3.2k on alt last season, got 4.1k which is 100 sr lower than main, i ain't complaining
Yeah I realize that there is hidden mmr but in qp/arcade, a lot of the times, I'm against diamond to master (sometimes gm) level players which means my minimum mmr is at least diamond level. My friend played mostly qp with very low level friends (1500-2000 visible SR). From queuing with him and speccing him while waiting for him to finish, I know our skill level is pretty big. Hell, he even admits that he doesn't deserve the rank and starts trolling me by calling me plat scrub haha. 
He played mostly support and even told me that he didn't do that much. He played mostly zen/lucio cuz he hates mercy. And given that this game can't quantify how much work you put in through peeling and such, there's no way the game recognized that he carried on lucio as an example.

And even the games that I lost, I played really well. There was one game where I got flat out stomped, but all the rest, I filled and played well on zen and soldier (soldier is my main). 
Just curious, why have three accounts?
p.s. have screens pm if you want em
I'm diamond and the game puts me in silver to diamond qp games, while my plat friend is consistently put in master to top 500 qp games. I can tell you that he is not that much better than me. I wouldn't go on qp mmr to determine someone's skill ever, as qp mmr is completely different from comp mmr.
QP and comp have separate mmr
Well, I don't know what to tell you then. From what I heard from friends and from my personal experience, the change in placements seemed to be because the hidden MMR had a much more drastic effect this time around. As for the QP/arcade thing, the game is a *lot* more lenient about who plays against who. As a mid diamond last season, I wound up in a few games against top 500s, which is absolutely insane because they outplayed us in every way, but it balanced out because they had a few silvers on their team as well.
Friends stopped playing and I inherited them. 
Pretty sure they're downvoting because you typed in 4.1k (Which is actually really unlikely for someone who ended in Diamond and placed this high)  instead of 3.1k
I'm just trying to understand, I'm not frustrated or mad that he got a higher rank, but just confused and want to know how it happened. (it's funny when he trolls me when we queue together saying shut up you plat scrub cuz he knows that I'm better.)

That being said, this isn't an alt account where you are able to play at a high level since the start, but rather it's his first account from launch where he participated in 6 seasons, so this account also encountered his growing pains and him just trying to learn every hero. If it was an alt account, it would totally be understandable to get a high rating, but for him to place silver to gold in 4 seasons and finally to barely make plat last season, it's interesting how the game placed him into diamond this season. 
when i get home i will post screens
If decay is in the picture it can happen
wow there is a reason i said pm for screens, yes it is unlikely, but thats what happened. Check out lordharis, who has never been gm and ended season 3.9k or something and got ranked 4.1k+. 

Zarya target priorities, and what to do about Rein/Orissa shields?
I'm a career low gold player that started taking comp more seriously midway through season 5. Placed 2056 this season. In effort to climb I've decided to main Zarya but my hero pool also includes D.Va, Lucio, and Ana. 

Rough queue session last night: 2-5-2. In one of the wins the other team had a leaver. I feel like I'm playing well but the losses keep piling up. Here's my [overbuff](https://www.overbuff.com/players/pc/Sanctions-11241/heroes/zarya?mode=competitive)

Other than D.Va what targets should I focus? What should I do about a Rein/Orissa shield. At this SR when I push past the shield to do some damage the team usually gets scared and watches me go in solo. Staying with the team is fruitless because I'm just pumping damage into a shield. Any tips?

Finally, are there any Zarya coaches out there that would help me?
you focus whatever is out of position or in reach of a kill/pressuring. you decide this case by case.

you usually dont wanna push past the shield, shooting them with your team is better in most cases(except for tracer, even genji should be shoot shields a lot and tracer should too if theres nothing better to do) because if you walk past shields you are usually too close. you arent winston, you dont really go beyond the border of the enemy team.

>I'm just pumping damage into a shield

doing damage against shield is never useless. especially rein can be killed easily once his barrier is down and he has pressure, then he has to leave the fight and you can shoot others.

vs orisa its a bit different because she has more shields, but that doesent mean you stop shooting shields. it just means that monkey and zen might be a good pick against orisa.

i can give you tips and you can add me on disocrd or ingame if you want. posting vods would be good.
Another nice trick to start learning now is to use right-click when you're dueling as well as just lobbing it into the enemy team when poking

In the 1v1 scenario, the right-click slightly pushes away enemies causing them to lose their aim - the angle they get pushed in can be predicted, learning this on Zarya allow me to 'carry' harder on her because I could win most 1v1's
I would focus targets that are easy to track with your beam. Zen, Mcree, Hanzo, enemy Zarya, monkey, rein and dva
Thanks for asking a good question, Dgrizzle. I'm a diamond Zarya main - [overbuff](https://www.overbuff.com/players/pc/GilGalad-11874/heroes/zarya).

Focusing shields can be fine if the enemy isn't advancing. You don't want to be extending too far beyond your team, as you aren't that kind of tank. Burning down shields makes grav easier as well, which is always a plus.

Focusing large or slow-moving targets is your best bet, or lobbing grenades into squishies grouped up. Melting tanks allows you to build ult quickly, which is often the deciding factor in a push.

Don't try to chase or prioritize Lucio, Pharah, Widow, Hanzo, or Tracer. You could be better utilized against others.

In addition, the other tank on your team is the best bet for a bubble, generally speaking. If you have a diving dps or a healer getting focused, bubble them of course.
4.1k peak zarya main, i wouldn't mind helping you out if you want
Hi dgrizzle, 
I'm a high plat (2.9k) Mei main who plays her as an off tank (similar to Zaryas role) or if forced even as a main tank , so I can maybe help.

1. Breaking Reins shield is never useless. Sure, there are better ways to spend your time but once his shield is down, often he and his team tend to be toast.

2. Orisa is a bit different, since her shield is on such a short cd and even once it's broken she can still effectively hold her ground. Learn to bomb next to and a bit behind it. If Orisa isn't centered in her shield it'll hurt her (not much but better than an everlasting shield fight).

3. You almost never want to push past the enemy shields, except if you have a dive team (Winston) jumping in and you can gain smth from the chaos of your attack (like free charge).

4. If you are good with Lucio (actually only his movement skills), I'd always recommend flanking, dropping from top and booping the tanks out of position to expose the enemy team/tank. Personally I like to drop from top, boop and speedbuff my way back to my team (though I only ever play Lucio in QP so ranked is probably a different story).

5. Orisa counters DVas ult quite nicely but in close combat DVa wins vs Orisa with a little support very clearly. Fly in either bubbled, with an Ana/Mercy healing you, boop the Orisa so maybe the enemy healers' LOS is interrupted and start shooting. Keep DM to pull back.

If you want I can review some VODs. I'm not a Zarya main but she does play very similar to Mei in many aspects and I figure that I can see if you make general mistakes just as good as any other tank/off tank main. :)
[free^ coaching^ hereeeeeee^](discord.gg/wawasbootcamp)
Love having a winston dive in when I play Zarya. Bubble him after he takes a bit of damage so the healers can do their job. Pretty much play around Winston making space. Focus tanks for ult then if youre above 50 charge (for the gun) kill squishies cause that damage is busted. Save personal bubble after your 200 hp takes some damage unless youre getting bursted. More or less about team comp and playing as a single unit. 
In general in Overwatch target priority is to focus someone you can safely kill. Zarya has no mobility abilities so she is typically in the front line killing other tanks since she can't safely dive backline and get out alive like dive heroes can. You will frequently encounter enemy DPS who are out of position (e.g. too far up, not protected by their tanks) and if so you can focus them safely. If there are enemies diving your backline you can of course safely turn around and focus them while peeling for teammates.

As far as interacting with shields, it depends on your team comp: 

If you have a traditional death ball comp (e.g. Solider, McCree, Junkrat) you coordinate with your team and destroy the shield together. The shield should go down in seconds if everyone is participating.

If you have teammates who prefer to avoid the shield altogether (e.g. Genji, Tracer, Doomfist, Pharah, Widowmaker) then you kind of have no choice but to poke past the shield or find some position that lets you avoid the shield. If you ever find that you are DPSing the shield alone or that it takes a long time to disable the shield that's bad and you not being effective.
I'll help you man. You can add me and we can play qp and I can give you advice. Career high 3850 with zarya 
Genji, Dva, Bastion (if you're high charge, bubble and you'll melt him before he can damage you), Torb, Mcree, Road, junk, Mei (once you're almost frozen, bubble and it resets the freeze)

https://discord.gg/Sm3JjC is a very good discord for looking for coaches. 

Make sure you use your bubbles for either other tanks, your healers w little movement (zen, Ana, and mercy if she has no one to fly to but you), or situations when a reaper is ulting, Winston jumps enemy team, etc.

Don't just randomly give it to a soldier when he is behind cover.
If the teams are poking behind shields:

1. Use your self bubble to farm charge

2. Use your team bubble to farm charge

If teams will engage (say that you're full charge and will crush their souls on voice, this will give confidence. Also having an ult to combo)

1. Use your self bubble only to save yourself in last cases or to put yourself in the front of an lethal attack to an ally

2. Use your team bubble to allow your DPS heroes to use their ults without dying (Like genji, soldier, pharah, reaper)

______

If you're tanking and isn't the main shield (If you're Zarya and have an reinhardt for example) or if you're Healing but isn't the main healer (If you're Zenyatta or Lúcio for example and have an Ana or Mercy)

You can do this to shake things up and force an attack:

1. Pick an DPS with high chances of shaking the situation of the game. Like Pharah, Junkrat, DoomFist, and force the changes to happen.

Usually picking an new hero will surprise the enemy and will allow your team to stomp them.

Putting an Pharah / DoomFist when you're on attack will distract the defense a LOT and make then worry about you allowing your team to have space

Putting Junkrat when you're defending can stop an moving payload that seemed to be impossible, since they won't be ready for all that spam and take a ton of damage.


PS. changing from Tank / Healer to DPS in the middle of a Fight can scare the fuck out of your teammates, since they will think you're trowing. Always say on voice what you're going to do. Like "Hey guys, I have an Idea that probably will win this point for us, help me" and pick the hero and go FAST!

If it don't work, of course, go back to your role
Spam the shit out of nades to build ult. Single beam when you are 1v1 at higher than 30 charge. You can nade at 5 ammo for a splash of damage instead of beam. You don't want to push past shields, as other have said. Watch out for Orisa too. She can outduel you with halt, fortify and shields. I'd keep my distance and farm charge with self bubble.

Shoots shields when doing nothing else/build up grav opportunity. 
Always look to take 1v1's where you can punish bad positioning on the enemy's part when you are at 50+ charge.With personal bubble up the only 1v1's you should generally avoid are Bastion and Reaper

For instance kings row has a lot of places where you will regularly find people out of posisiton you can take advantage off. Hotel on first phase attack,mega health room next to the pit 3rd phase attack ect.


The right clicks are great for burst damage too at zero charge they do 45,at max charge its 90.Even when you spot an easy beam kill,using a right click to finish it off is more effecient a lot of the time

Also when you are near a rein rather than burning down his shield its often worth just stepping foward past his barrier and nading his feet.

Your stats are ok,you have very good average energy and decent accuracy,.But seem to be lacking elims and straight up  damage,might be worth going more aggressive :)


I always alt fire shields because it does more damage to it, and if people pop through it they will take more damage.  If someone on your team is amazing, I duo them. Exception Genji this can confuse him and ruin his damage. If you have enough awareness to watch when his deflect runs out, then it's fine. Reaper can become nearly immortal with an extra Zarya bubble duo. 

Healers getting bubbles is helpful as well. Anyone giving them a hard time in the back line should be focused if they are taking out tanks and healers. Don't forget to use your own body to tank damage when you can. You regen quickly
Don't know if anyone has mentioned this yet or not, but when you shoot at shields, always aim as if you're going for max dmg on a target behind the shield--basically, pretend there is no shield and try to get headshots. If the shield breaks or gets dropped while you're firing, you want your shots to be lined up for maximum killing power. Worst case scenario, you're still hitting the shield. Best case, you kill someone while just focusing on breaking the shield. 
https://www.youtube.com/user/jwcanas1an you should check this dude out, he has helped me a bunch with my zarya play and reviews zarya VODs from bronze all the way thru top500
142 Hour (former) Zarya main checking in. Roughly 3,000SR.

Zars still emerging from a bit of a tough spot with alot of dive characters still getting around. My career winrate with Zarya is >55% but running about 40% this season for some reason. She's getting back into meta tho.

Don't be afraid to pump Rein's shield as a last resort but don't waste your time on Orisa's shield. If you're at high charge just pump anyone you can catch. Throw a few bombs into a group of squishies.

RE going in solo, don't. You should be playing off a tank, hug him like a bitch and 'jump-frog' with him. Let him go in, tank some damage, go past him and take some damage yourself. If your buddy tank has any idea, he will jump-frog you again. You get good charge and you make space for your DPS.

You've got some good offers from higher Zaryas to coach but I'm always happy to watch Zarya VODs.
As Zarya, your priorities are, in order:

1. Staying alive
2. Staying alive
3. Keeping your teammates alive
4. Charging your ultimate
5. Maintaining energy, getting picks

When you're poking, you can bubble a tank or two but only because higher charge is better for farming ult and everyone is probably relatively safe. If you're above ~40 charge you should switch to mostly using your personal barrier for charge, and keeping your projected barrier for saving lives. Use shields reactively instead of preemptively.

Then, it's just about landing as much damage as fast as possible to charge Graviton. That means lobbing grenades into crowds and drilling tanks with your beam. Don't even really worry about trying to get picks on the squishies unless they're low/out of position or your team is focusing them because if your beam tracking is inconsistent (like me) you're better off farming charge from a bigger target than doing no damage to Lucio. 

Obvious candidates for Project Barrier are, well, anyone that might otherwise die or take a bunch of damage soon. Anyone ulting, a charging Reinhardt, an out-of-position support. Think about who you would shoot if you were the enemy, then watch to see if that person starts taking damage (again, reactively not preemptively). 

Then, attempt to land the most impactful ult in the game knowing that your team is watching and will definitely know if you fuck it up. No pressure!
Thanks everyone for all the input and offers to help me improve.

After watching some of the linked videos I have found major problems with my bubble usage. I'm way too greedy farming charge and spam out bubbles when I already have really high (>=80) charge. Then I don't have a bubble to protect squishies or other tank when I need it. Also need to be more patient with using my personal bubble, as I tend to pop it as soon as I take any damage rather than waiting for them to eat into my health at all.

There are plenty of other areas to improve in but that one really stood out to me.

Thanks again everyone.
Orisa has one S
> you arent winston, you dont really go beyond the border of the enemy team.

Yeah I'm learning this, and sometimes I do risk it by going beyond the shield but it just depends on the situation. Sometimes its to get off a right click and finish a healer, then bubble and run out. 

Should I be asking my team to help me break the rein shield?
Also always right click on your last 1-10 rounds of ammo. It costs 25 but you can still use it for the full damage below 25 ammo, effectively giving you 124 at most.
Does her right-click benefit from her charge? I was never clear on that.
And Ana! She is slow as shit like zen, but you'll have to burn thru an extra 100hp if she drops her biotic grenade
PM sent
PM sent
Bastion melts you way faster than you can kill him
>Don't just randomly give it to a soldier when he is behind cover.3

Yeah bubble use and charge management was the first mechanic I learned. Always room for improvement but for the most part I don't waste random bubbles.
i think most people are already shooting shields if they have nothing better to attack but a call is n ever a bad idea as it can break shields within seconds
>Should I be asking my team to help me break the rein shield?

Yes, absolutely. Especially if you are close to grav.
100 charge Zarya kills a lot of things quickly.  If I have bubble up, I'm happy to run into Rein or Orisa and kill them.  Rein can keep his shield up, but if you're literally in his face it doesn't block anything.  (I do this a lot with D.va, but find the need to do it as Zarya from time to time.)

Orisa is similarly easy to kill.  She moves slowly while shooting at you.  Very easy to track with the beam.

Don't run into a 1v6, but don't hesitate to take a 1v1 when you have charge and hopefully your personal bubble.
Definitely, I think it can 2 shot squishies at high charge
It's crazy dangerous at max charge.
If you walk up to him w high charge, shoot at him, he then starts shooting you, get to around 200hp, bubble, then he'll be dead, especially if you're moving. 

If he's getting pocketed that's a whole different story, can't help you there.
It also buffs the splash range iirc
Huh, good to know. I always kind of assumed it didn't for some reason.
This opens a world of possibilities! 

I can't believe I just assumed that only the left click was affected by charge. 
Bastion does 500 dps and has 300hp with armor and damage reduction, even at full charge he wins. Your shield is gone in 0.4 seconds and you're dead in another 0.8. Even At 190 dps (full charge) it takes 2 seconds of perfect accuracy to get him down and you're more likely to be sitting at 80% or so. That would have to be a bad bastion
You'll be amazed how easy it can be to snipe squishies running away with it. Full charge Zarya is one of the most deadly characters in the game anywhere beyond sniper-range.
Yeah the best thing to do as Zarya against Bastion is to farm charge off his blindfiring, and then pressure him with your alt fire. Don't try to 1v1.
In gold, you can usually dance on his head and win. You should definitely not try him at greater than melee range, better to just nade him until he moves

How do you map your mouse/Keyboard?
I'm new to playing Overwatch on a mouse and keyboard (been playing on console since S1). I find the default controls work for me on most heroes. Reload seems to be in a kind of awkward spot and I can't tell you how many times I've accidentally ulted pressing Q when trying to press tab. So what are some changes from the default you guys use for all heroes? Also I noticed for some heroes like Mercy and Lucio the default controls are especially awkward. So I'm sure they probably require a lot of changes to feel comfortable. 

Side question: What sensitivity does everybody play on? I think the default is 15. I tried bringing it down to 10, then 7.5. Now that I'm used to 7.5 I think a little lower might help me make my shots a little more precise. 

Any help is appreciated. Btw I'm not asking you guys what I should play or what is best because I don't want to get a bunch of "Just play whatever works for you" responses. I'm curious what works for you guys so I can test it for myself. I was in the same situation as you were, I wasn't comfortable with default map when I switched from ps4 overwatch to pc overwatch, so what I did:

Mouse 4 button for melee (side-lower button on mouse)
Mouse 5 button for reload (side-upper button on mouse)
Mouse scroll down for ultimate 
Q for hello/greetings button
Sensitivity 5 in-game 

With this ult change I managed to stop accidently using ult but press hello instead lol and use the ult efficiently (managed to get the pulse bombs stuck most of the time as a tracer)
It really just comes down to personal preference, 9/10 people are going to have some variance in their settings. In game sens is just a multiplier of your DPI of your mouse. Dpi usually have set around 800-1000. I'm going 800 dpi and 6.00 sens. Works well for me, slow enough where I can aim well and fast enough where I can 180 out and run if I need to, or hit some flick sleep darts with Ana :D. But I have ultimate on one of my mouse buttons as well as melee and voice chat hotkey (Logitech g502 AMAZING mouse btw especially for fps, got it for csgo.) Made Q my comm menu, made zxc quick chat stuff like healing ulti status and group up. I'm coming from 2500 hours in dota 2 so I'm pretty comfortable moving around the keyboard with hot keys.  Since youre less experienced on pc it may take some time but keep tweaking them until you get it right, sensitivity is most important. General rule of thumb is if you move your mouse from left part of mouse pad to the right its a full 180. With pc you generally want lower sens than console counterpart because presise aim is VERY important. Idk console players can aim when theyre sens is maxed out for whatever reason, call of duty mentality I guess. 
I have reload on side mouse buttom 3 and second ability next to it on buttom 4. Melee on E and crouch on caps lock (gonna try to change crouch on space, instead of jump). Also I made some specific hero changes

Zenyatta: discord on right click, alt fire on side mouse buttom 4

Lucio: jump on right click

Tracer: blink on space

I've heard Ana can be a bit easier to play if you change scope and sleep dart, but I didn't - got used to play the way I do it.
The only thing from my settings that I would recommend to others is to bind ultimate to mouse3 (mouse-wheel press), hard to press on accident but very reachable. 

Aside from that, I've bound all the buttons that I need while aiming to the keyboard rather than the mouse, since I play with high sens and pressing buttons messes my aim. So for example attack is on shift, secondary attack on spacebar, while on the mouse I only have melee, reload and a few chat binds. Not sure if you wanna follow me on this though.
Anything you have to aim to use put on mouse, any auto placed stuff like soldier healbot is fine on shift/e.

When it comes to symm turrets or discord orb there's a lot of different thoughts. With the mercy rework I'm changing my key mapping a lot. Most of this comes down to playstyle and what mouse you have.
I really like those changes. What's your caps lock? 
Oh and my sens is 6, 1500, but it's a really personal thing. Test it and you'll get your perfect one. There're youtube videos on how to test it wisely. 

Also you might want to have higher sens for, let's say, D.va and lower for McCree. So it depends on what hero are you going to play. I guess some people have diff senses for diff heroes, but I personally don't overthink about it. 
I have Zen discord and harmony on mouse wheel up and down. So easy. 
Push to talk button since it's easier to access than default button

[NA PC] Mercy Tutoring from a Masters Mercy
I've only ever tutored one person and we both feel it greatly helped her improve. Having so much fun before, I'd like to 'freely' tutor one person to really feel out the ropes with helping others grow.

&nbsp;

I reached 3509 (Masters) last season and have been playing since closed beta, I also played Medic in Team Fortress 2 for 8 years, and make videos. I don't know if that makes me qualified; however, the last person I tutored said she learned a lot.

&nbsp;

Here's how I tutor: 
While both of us are in a Discord channel, I'll spectate you for a match or two to ascertain your level of skill. Afterwards we'll go over it, then I'll continue to spectate and begin coaching you. Eventually I'll play a match, you'll be able to see the coaching advice employed first hand. With your permission, I can stream it so that once the stream is finished, you can go back and rewatch the stream highlight to review.

&nbsp;

Truthfully, I was a little nervous making this post. I am interested in finding someone to apprentice; however, don't want to come off as being arrogant, patronizing or condescending. I feel we all have room to grow and I'd like to share some of my experience with others if they're interested.

&nbsp;
Add me: Graham#11211

&nbsp;
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
First Tutoring Session: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t82P_TzVL-I

&nbsp;Second Tutoring Session: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CgKSSC_6UMYSo I just completed my first tutoring session! You can see the entire session here:

&nbsp;
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t82P_TzVL-I

&nbsp;

Make sure to check the description for timestamps.
I can't take you up on this because I'm on PS4, but I just wanted to say that I think this is incredibly sweet of you to do for a stranger.
I'd love to take you up on this! Currently 2940, Mark#6181. 
Hey this is pretty cool, I'd like to take you up on your offer. Will add you when I get home. douseyrslf#1665
This is so cool. I imagine you would be swamped by requests, but I would love to watch some of your videos of tutorials 
Hey, would love to learn from someone better than me. I'm a mid-plat player! 

ForeBears#11184
This is really cool and awesome of you! Looks like there's already a lot of people requesting your help. Please keep posting your tutoring sessions! I'll fave this thread so I can keep tabs :) Also would love an opportunity to see this when Mercy 2.0 comes out.
Great post - this is what the OW community needs. I'll be watching the link you posted below. Thanks so much!
Hey guys, I'm open for one tutoring session today if you guys are interested! Totally add me at Graham#11211 on PC and we can schedule something. 
Hey guys, I just completed my second tutoring session with SUNTheBaer and it went really well! You can see the full session here with timestamps to follow along, make sure you add me if you'd like to try and schedule a tutoring session:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CgKSSC_6UMY
hey i am a bronze league of legends player looking for help playing my favorite champion, Garen. if you think that you can be of any assistance, please reply to this forum post with the text, "Garen". thank you very much
It's truly a pleasure! I plan to be uploading each and every session, granted I have permission from the one being tutored. You can see the first session (with timestamps in the description) here: 
&nbsp;

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t82P_TzVL-I
Awesome, looking forward to it!
Thank you so much! I just completed my first session and had a blast! You can see the first session here, and other tutorials on my channel: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t82P_TzVL-I
Add me today sometime and I can fit you in for a review! :)
Thank you! I actually made a really indepth video about the mercy 2.0 patch if you'd like to watch: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TY_xOIFDVxU
Thanks! You should add me :)
Video linked by /u/Graham3D:

Title|Channel|Published|Duration|Likes|Total Views
:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:
[Mercy Tutoring Session: SUNTheBaer](https://youtube.com/watch?v=CgKSSC_6UMY)|Graham plays Mercy|2017-09-08|1:22:18|1+ (100%)|3

> This is my second Mercy tutoring session with someone I...

---

[^Info](https://np.reddit.com/r/youtubot/wiki/index) ^| [^/u/Graham3D ^can ^delete](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=_youtubot_&subject=delete\%20comment&message=dmr2hin\%0A\%0AReason\%3A\%20\%2A\%2Aplease+help+us+improve\%2A\%2A) ^| ^v2.0.0
Thanks! Watching now.
Video linked by /u/Graham3D:

Title|Channel|Published|Duration|Likes|Total Views
:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:
[Mercy Tutoring Session: Handsoap](https://youtube.com/watch?v=t82P_TzVL-I)|Graham plays Mercy|2017-09-07|1:29:28|1+ (100%)|9

> This is my first Mercy tutoring session with someone I met...

---

[^Info](https://np.reddit.com/r/youtubot/wiki/index) ^| [^/u/Graham3D ^can ^delete](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=_youtubot_&subject=delete\%20comment&message=dmpioeh\%0A\%0AReason\%3A\%20\%2A\%2Aplease+help+us+improve\%2A\%2A) ^| ^v2.0.0

Having troubles against Symmetra + Torbjorn
* Introduction
This is a cry for help from a high gold player, i'm at 2400 Sr and I think that I can get to plat but some comps are really troubling.
Every time that my team plays well on 2cp or hybrid maps on defense (They arent able to do anything to us) and we go on attack about 80% of the time the enemy team goes Sym+Torb+Rein/Orisa+Mercy and it just makes it impossible to push. 
* Rushing them
Organizing a push is already complicated enough with players that dont care about anything but sometimes you can organize a rush but when you do rush them, before they have 150+ armor and shield on everyone, you get fried up by sentries and when you take them out you are already being hit by a torb turret and 6 enemies so the enemy already picked off 1-2 players and because symmetra's ult charges faster than a coked up tracer the picks that my team gets are almost irrelevant because they will come back in 5-10 seconds and if most people die in their team and their teleporter was killed mercy can just ressurect them, it becomes extremely frustating because it seems that any hero is countered by something.
* Heroes I tried using
Tracer and genji: I thought they would be decent against it because they will be able to flank and pick off their supports and destroy their teleport. But with the extra hp is harder to kill the enemy and because you're taking longer their team can get to you, and when I try to destroy their teli sym gets a warning and my genji-tracer v1's with symmetras don't end up well
Winston: the same reason as genji but because he has a lower damage output it's also really hard to kill supports and he takes a while to destroy the teli and a 350 Hp symmetra can almost kill a winston if she plays her cards right but the issue is that winston has a hard time against torbjorn and rein.
Sombra: I thought she would be pretty good against it but it's really hard to pull off hacks and get kills with a lot of turrets but her EMP is the best thing i found so far against it.
Does anyone have any tips?I'm getting really frustrated since it's such a common compJunkrat, pharah, and hanzo(maybe Mei too the ult seems good).  Are imo the best DPS heroes in these situations. I don't play projectile DPS personally but I'll typically recommend these switches to other players. Outside of the projectile heroes I like Reaper because they don't have mobility to run away from him. 

Dive tanks(monkey+Dva) are also pretty good. The catch is that monkey is good vs sym but bad vs torb because of the armor so you want to try to win point on first push. Dva can eat sym balls to deny ult to help slow down their build up as well. 

EMP combined with a variety of DPS ults can do wonders here too. Sombra can also pull double duty hunting down Sym ults. 

Support wise they don't necessarily add a whole awful lot but I prefer Zenyatta/Ana. Because typically they run a very tight defense and you don't want your Mercy being all up in their face. And Zen just because killing them faster is good and they don't have a lot of options for sending heroes after them when they're outside of range. 
Don't play Genji into Symm.  At your level it's pure feed.
My go-to recommendation when people are having trouble with builders is Pharah. Being able to poke from a distance + splash damage makes it easy to get rid of turrets, both Sym's and Torb's. She's versatile enough to be played as a dive hero if you so desire, and she has sinergies with a lot of other heroes. Also, if you have a Mercy pocketing you and some decent positioning, you're gonna kick some serious ass.
Junkrat can work, lob nades and dodge in and out of cover to avoid damage, or PharaMercy to take out a turret or shield gen if it's visible to the sky. With heals Phara can always take out turret 


I dropped from 2800 to 2400 because of these kinds of high damage comps though, I really hate it. I almost always win koth though since that cancer isn't so good, as well as most pure payload maps. 
You have to try and get your team to push early and heavily commit,at the start of the round is when these comps are at the weakest,by the 3rd fight they have usually snowballed  and are extremely hard to break,but worse than that it tends to have tilted your team by that point.


Obviously you wont know for certain that they run this comp till the first team fight,so if you do lose it you need to get your team to quickly regroup and and go in hard the second time around.

Its hard to recommend a comp to counter it tbh,as your sorta at the mercy of what heros your teammates can play well.

Dva/winston seems to be a pretty solid tank duo to break it if they both dive into together and just hope your dps see you commit and follow up
My advice to you would be to pick heroes that produce trash damage (not that they are trash), heroes like Junkrat, Phara, Winston to destroy the turrets;  Even running an offensive Symmetra works as her beam can fry the turrets very quickly and her orbs go through Reinhardt's and Orisa's shields.  Snipers excel here because if a Widow or Hanzo pick her off before a push its usually game over for the defensive team.  Symm's turrets only have 1 HP each, so they are very easy to kill; the issue with Sym is that she thrives on chaos of the battlefield and teams not working cohesively together; if she has a pocket Mercy you'd best try your darnedest to make sure that she's dead before the teamfight.  DO. NOT. PEEL. FOR. HER. TP/SM.  I cannot emphasise this enough; too many times teams will split up on point to go and find the teleporter to kill it; then we're picked off one by one and lose the point.  I'm not sure many people understand that often times a Symmetra will inadvertently stagger her own team by placing a TP.

Like others have said, running a Tracer/Genji can be feeding the enemy team simply because its too much damage to deal with.  A Sombra is actually ideal in this situation as if you're stealthy enough you can destroy turrets at a distance, can hack the Torbjorn turret if its focusing on the team, and her ult disables all turrets for 10 seconds.
Winston's bubble is actually one of the best ways to quickly deal with the turret.
I'm not playing genji to kill sym, i did it to kill her teleporter  
Maybe you should listen to the answer you asked a question about. Why even post in the first place if you know better anyway. Stop thinking you know everything and try to learn. 
Doesn't matter what you're targeting... her turrets and - if, as is likely, she's lurking - primary fire make the heal support he already needs unreasonably high.  Any half-decent Symm will deny your entrances and force you to take too much undeflectable poke to contribute.

Tracer and Sombra are better choices all around unless you or your tanks are super good.
They also said that the enemy had a Torb, which is one of the hard counters to Tracer.

Junkrat and Pharah are better counters to these characters, especially Junkrat.
most of 2cp maps have great flanks for genji and tracer to go behind

Climbing out of gold
Did anyone climb out of gold in season 5? Or now in season 6? 

I consistently get games where somebody throws. It's been about every other game. Nobody seems to be able to play more than one hero and people get pissed and petty when you ask them to switch. 

This is hell guys. How are you supposed to climb in a game that is so focused on team play. 

So much weighs on your whole team cooperating and for me if HT now it seems impossible to climb. I would say just concentrate on yourself. Had a game yesterday where we had on defence 3 dps (with a Hanzo) Sym, Zen and Rein. We stomp the other team pretty hard.

Game before that had 3 dps, 1 tank and 2 heals. First round they rolled us almost to the end but we held. Second round we rolled them faster and won after like 2 minutes.

You just have to accept people will play what they want and most of the time it will work because they're playing their comfort picks. Sure it's a team game but think about it like life - no one owes you anything so don't expect them to play with you. Don't rely on anyone but yourself
Honestly you really can't play comp games these days with a serious attitude. You just can't. You'll go insane. You have to force yourself to adopt a 'fuck it if we win great if we don't whatever, i'm gonna play to have fun.' Just look at any Overwatch streamer. Not a single one thinks comp is actually good right now, and most don't really take matches seriously.

That does **not** mean you start playing whatever the fuck you want and pick torb when your team already has 3 dps. It means you still pick relative to your team, but just stop caring about what others have picked - to the extent that it won't drastically affect the team in a very fucking obvious way. So if there's 5 dps, sure it might be worth saying something vague (beyond that isn't worth it imo, again blame Blizzard for being indecisive on how they want to run this game) but you have 2 tanks, 2 healer, a torb and junkrat, just let it go.

Also I would advise you to really get to know how to play something consistent. So not Torb, or Junkrat (well maybe he is in this broken state), or Symmetra, or Widow...Yeah they can work beautifully but too many things have to align for that to be the case and as you've realized, teamwork isn't really common these days. Back when I climbed to Plat, I learned Ana and Rein, because those two formed (and still form to an extent) the backbone of a good, reliable comp. People fail to realize these days that even though dive is the meta, more often than not they would be better off just running a standard rein comp. Just because you see winston + zarya/dva being run in the tournaments doesn't mean all of a sudden you're going to be a godly dive winston. You're not Miro. If you are comfortable with Rein, stick with Rein, especially at these ranks where a dive comp doesn't automatically mean a rein is useless, and having that shield and free earthshatters actually still means something.
In season 5 I was ranked at 2100, dropped at 1900 at the beginning of the season and finished the season at 2600 (season high 2700). This season I did 9-1 in placements so I was ranked directly in plat.

So you can definitely go out of gold even if your "true rank"is not that high (I believe mine is around 2600).
I play mostly healers and tanks (ana, zen, winston, dva and zarya). However if you can play them decently I think zen and winston are beasts in gold.

You will get a lot of retarded teams, and i advise you that maybe one third of the time (when you get stupid teamcomp) just mute everything and play whatever you want. It will help you not getting desperate by the stupidity of dps autolocks. 
I dropped steadily through season 5.  A third of my season five games had a leaver in them on my team.  So far in season six it's only happened once out of a dozen or so games.  Time will tell.
Problem is in some games you have idiots, but even in the games that you have a chance in, you are tilted and don't play at a level deserving of a higher rank.


You gotta be playing well in all your games, so you can be the difference maker in enough of them to rank up.


Take a break and come back and you'll do better.


And you can always post your gameplay so people can point out how to improve and make a bigger difference in games.
Play zen, drop balls on enemies faces. Win. Source: 70% winrate with him in gold this season and slowly climbing
I sometimes use "prefer this player" functionality in console. Not sure if it really helps. But I do notice that I get to play with the same guys I preferred at times. 

I climbed to platinum the last season. And still at low plat this season. I used zen a lot. Because you can kill and heal. Doesn't need to rely on teammates as much as other heroes. He can also debuff. There are even times I get 4 golds with zen which is a bad sign for your team because your dps aren't killing enough. But it shows that you can handle your own with your team. 

Then mostly a lot of luck with good teammates. Hahahaha. And hope you don't get toxic players and leavers. 
My alt account placed mid gold in S5 and I climbed to 2800 in about a week. Just play what you're best at, 95% of games in this rank are won by the team who has better mechanical skill and positioning, team comp doesn't matter half as much as a lot of people think. There will always be days where you drop due to throwers, leavers and things like that but you can't control those things so just chill and call it a day if you lose too much in a row.

Of course you will have an easier time if you're competent on heroes with high carry potential. On my climb to 2800 I played almost exclusively Tracer (my main) and then dropped a few hundred points because I started playing heroes I don't have as much experience on.
> Did anyone climb out of gold in season 5? Or now in season 6?

Quite a lot of people yes

> I consistently get games where somebody throws. It's been about every other game. Nobody seems to be able to play more than one hero and people get pissed and petty when you ask them to switch.

I have 1 account in high gold and the other in low plat. I'd rather play with gold than plat because of the ragers.

> This is hell guys. How are you supposed to climb in a game that is so focused on team play.

You are not supposed to climb. You will only climb when you get better. If you stay in the same range for 3 seasons, that means you are right where you need to be.

> So much weighs on your whole team cooperating and for me if HT now it seems impossible to climb.

Then you are at the correct ranking for your actual skill.
I climbed out of gold on PC in season 5 it was my first season and honestly I don't believe Elo hell at all I rarely run into leavers/ throwers I climbed out with my main Genji and flexing onto other dps most tanks and Lucio 

Edit: I mainly played Genji though
If you want to get out of gold stop thinking in every game there is a thrower or troll cause this is not the case. Someone who doens't jump himself over a cliff or is just afk all game is not a thrower. Change you attitude and it will be easy to get out of gold. You just have to realize that it is YOU being bad. Even dia's are still "bad". So stop looking at your teammates and improve on your mistake. I am sure thousands of people made it out of gold this season. My friend included. 
If you are at a pretty high level, open an alt account. The match making system will match you with players that are more cooperative and eager to win. Much less trolls and throwers. This has been my experience and I climbed out of my rank at main account really fast in my alt. 


I dunno if you knew this but you can group up with players to avoid playing with Torb mains. =)

Seriously OP: find people to play with! check the Reddit LFG, guilded.gg., discords, find a clan or whatever. THIS is vital for your mental health.

the alternative, like some said allready, is to stop caring. simple as that.
So is there just no hope for those with a low rank? We're stuck here and are never getting out? 
Called the placebo effect. I'm pretty sure blizzard commented on this in the past. 
Thing is the hours I can really play don't match up with most people so I end up solo Qing my games a lot of the time
As a torb main this season I feel offended. In gold it really doesn't matter what you pick just play your character well. I climbed out of gold recently playing torb exclusively
Many people that tried this came to the same conclusion.  The communication difference and cooperation I've experienced cannot be explained by the placebo effect.  There is a more of a willingness to win.  I believe I'm getting matched up with relatively low level players on my alt account.

I think blizzard tries to match teams up according to there average level in addition to SR and perhaps career high.  As a player with a silver border I'm more likely to see one on the other team.  If not, the opposing team players might have a higher level on average compared to the rest of my team to "balance levels".

 
then why not add the "gud guys" you meet in comp? Playing SoloQ will grind you down if you don´t stop to care...
I didn't consider that factor, that new players might try to win more often than 400+ level players who have been around the same SR for some time
It's too late mate

Low SR gains in season 6
Has anybody experienced low SR gains this season?

I am currently sitting on a 63.6% winrate this season with about 25 played games and I gain about 20 SR each win and lose roughly 25 SR.

I know about the hidden MMR but this season seems strange to me because in season 5 this ratio was 25-30 SR per win and i lost about 25 SR per loss.

I am currently 100 SR below my last season high and i have no clue why i get punished like this.My best bet is because we don't get placed lower than our hidden MMRs this season, we are not getting the higher SR (different from the boosted after placement matches SR) that we would normally get from being lower than where the system expects us to be (hidden MMR). 

For example, I am usually mid diamond which makes me believe my hidden MMR is around 2700 and before this season, I usually get placed gold (2416 I placed season 5). I would usually get around 30-40 SR per win and lose 15-20 up until I hit mid plat (around 2800) then my SR per win dropped to 15-25 and my SR per loss stayed around 15-20. This season, I placed at 2780 (after boosted matches I was at around 3000) and my SR gains range about 10-20 and my losses are 20-25.

Some people say this kind of biased system doesn't exist, but every season the evidence becomes more and more clear.
mercy player perhaps? sombra? any off meta hero?
Looks like the nerfed perfomance SR gains kicked in bois!
> punished

Seriously, just stop saying that about a game.
The most likely explanation is that since they didn't artificially drop our SR after completing placements that they had no reason to give out of placement bonus SR so we could climb back up.

In past seasons they would take whatever your actual placement was, subtract some given amount (anecdotal evidence suggests anywhere from 100-300 SR on average), then give you upwards of 50 games after placements to earn bonus SR to get you where you "belong." Since they're not subtracting that SR from where we place then there's no reason to provide the bonus gains out of placements to help us climb.

The original idea of subtracting SR was because this is a ladder system and they wanted us to experience the climb. To *feel* like we're making progress but I think they realized this was just a placebo that many players knew better about and preferred not to have. Thus the placements we have this season.

Edit: Just to clarify, to my knowledge Blizzard hasn't officially stated that they removed out of placement bonuses. I only suspect as much based on anecdotal evidence provided by my own experience, my friends, and posts like OP's that are noticing as much.
>My best bet is because we don't get placed lower than our hidden MMRs this season, we are not getting the higher SR (different from the boosted after placement matches SR) that we would normally get from being lower than where the system expects us to be (hidden MMR).

I think this may be close but I'd be willing to bet it's the out of placement bonus more than anything. I believe they removed the boosted matches out of placements. Since they placed us where we "belong" then there's no need to have the bonuses after placements to help us get to our intended rank.

Your past experiences indicate getting placed 200-300 SR lower than your intended rank, having boosted SR to get you to your intended rank, the out of placement bonuses being used up resulting in what seems to be lowered SR gains or leveled off gains/losses. From there you just rise and fall like normal. If you were climbing from mid plat to mid diamond then your MMR *should* come with you **if** you've managed to hold that rank for any length of time.

MMR confidence gets stronger the more matches you play in a rank and maintain that rank. If you're rising and falling by any considerable amount then MMR confidence may be a bit less confident and likely holds somewhere in the middle, your average.  If you just peak at mid diamond but don't sit there consistently then your MMR probably won't rise to that level. It suspects that it's possibly just a fluke that you reached that high or that possibly you were carried a little bit. 

**Keep in mind this is largely educated guessing based on official information Blizzard has provided.** I'm not trying to suggest this is exactly how it works but I do feel pretty strongly that it works this way or close to it based on the pieces put together from official statements from Blizzard. 
nope. Dva, Winston, Zen, Ana and Soldier mostly
I believe my hidden MMR is lower because in season 3 (when I was in between jobs for about a month) I was able to climb (grind) from mid gold (2350) to mid diamond (3250) and then stayed at mid diamond for the last month (season high was 3312, end of season was 3226). Season 4 I placed around the same (2350) and slowly made my way to diamond over the three months, barely hit it (3010) and then stopped playing, so season high and end of season was 3010. Season 5 I didn't play until the last two weeks and placed around the same (2380) and climbed until I reached 2860 which is where I was at the end of the season.  This season I got placed at 2780 and haven't played after placements. 

So I'm not peaking at mid diamond and then falling, I've been able to stay there consistently when I've been able to play enough games to get there. I'm not a big fan of how much I have to grind to get to where I belong (mid diamond), which is why I complain about being placed in mid-gold, but I don't really complain about being placed in plat because I understand why I am there.  

What I hate is doing 10 placement matches every season when the system already knows where it wants to place me.
With the exception of S3, it sounds like you peaked in diamond then quit playing or didn't play much. Another official confirmation from Blizzard is that MMR gains confidence with the more games you play. The implication here is that if you don't play many games it will lose confidence. I think there are multiple ways this could interpreted but what it can mean is in situations like peaking in diamond and not playing for the rest of the season or getting there in the last month and hoovering there for a few weeks could depend on how many games you played in that time. If you didn't play very mean then MMR could have been fuzzy on whether or not you actually belonged there.

Keep in mind also, during S3-4 win/lose streaks could also accidentally boost people to places they don't belong (up or down). Now, I'm not suggesting this did or didn't happen to you. I don't know your experience. What I'm trying to get across is the fact that there are many, many variables, most of which we don't know of or how they work, so there is a very likely reasonable explanation to describe your situation. It just may not be a simple one.

While it hasn't been confirmed, it's entirely possible that streaks could have shaken confidence in MMR which would contribute to the explanation of why and how so many people were fluctuating up and down because of streaks. Not just because of being able to get on a streak and get lucky enough to boost your SR up or down but having MMR be less confident would allow someone to rise up and down with there SR more too. If MMR were more solidified then the streaks wouldn't have effected SR as badly. Alternatively, if MMR was keeping streaks in check (to some degree) then if it's confidence were lessened then streaks could have been much, much worse. It's all theoretical anyway. We'll never really know unless Blizzard clears the air.

Again, I'm not trying to belittle your experience or deny your skill or potential. I'm not suggesting you don't belong in diamond. I'm simply saying that there are a lot of factors. Consider the different possibilities before jumping to any conclusion that the system is rigged or biased. It very well may not be but due to circumstances that we can't explain, your situation may be completely legit.

Best way to practice Pharah air battles?
whats the best way to practice mid air shots with Pharah? either against other Pharahs or their Mercys or even Doomfist now.

P.S. When going up against a pharmercy, should I focus Mercy or Pharah?>P.S. When going up against a pharmercy, should I focus Mercy or Pharah?

Mercy. Better option IMO is to just ignore them altogether at the beginning of the fight. Unless the other Pharamercy combo is consistently killing you as Pharah (which is rare) or you know you can consistently kill them (which is just as rare), you are better off killing everyone on the ground first.
Can't give any tips for how to practice, but here's the target priority:

If you're alone against a Pharmercy and nobody else who can reliably shoot them is in range, you want to shoot the Mercy, because she will heal any hits on the Pharah back within 2 seconds, meaning you would need 3^* hits in a row without any additional aim time, at which point you might as well just get into a pro team if you can do that consistently. Mercy needs 6 seconds to heal back with an additional second to start up her self-regen, so one hit every 6-7 seconds is progress against Mercy, compared to within 1-2 seconds against Pharah(with the rocket fire rate being 0.91). You can kill a Mercy if you can hit her within 3 seconds of the first hit, and with 3 rockets you can take a total of 9-10 seconds counting from the first one to kill the Mercy(again, compared to the 2 seconds against Pharah). AFTER all that you just need to beat the Pharah in a duel.

However if others are shooting the Pharah as well, I'd go for the Pharah, since if Pharah dies, Mercy has no way to keep in the air and everyone else can shoot her afterwards as well. Depends on how important it is to get rid of Mercy in the given situation is though. If she's THE priority target, the above strategy can still be used, you just have others shoot the Mercy as well.

^*: Note that it is theoretically possible to kill Pharah in 2 hits while she's being healed by Mercy if her fast movement(Space or E) causes the 2 rockets to connect within 0.66 seconds as opposed to 0.91 seconds.
https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/6r6ei2/a_method_to_practice_vertical_aim_ie_antipharah/

try this
https://youtu.be/pAqFTQNhBjw?t=15s

Talespin demonstrated air battles in the Practice Range.
If you find a good pharah in a game, add them and ask to 1v1 sometimes. They'll probably appreciate the help too!
I just ignore their pharah and focus people on the ground. Depending on the level you're playing at most players can't reliably pharah vs pharah. If they have pharmercy targeting you and you're helping your team take out ground targets then the ground fight essentially becomes a 6v4 in your teams favour
Check out YourOverwatch channel on YouTube. They just put out a video exactly on this. 
custom bot game and set a pharah (you) and 5 mercy's vs 6 pharahs with reduced damage. 5 mercy will keep you and each other alive while you can take shots at any of the pharahs while slowly killing them.
also if you focus the mercy and end up eliminating her, she will have to respawn and get back so during that period of time they will be down a healer/without their healer (i mean i don't know if any mercy players would focus on being pharmercy if they are solo healing but you know)
This is really good info to know! Thank you!
I saw that, It's what prompted this post as i didn't feel it was complete enough of a guide to actually make one good at airshots, It was just theory.
There are no pharah bots

For those who play Torbjorn in competitive, what is the best advice you can give?
I like to mix things up a bit and picking up torb in a competitive setting. Any positioning tips, turret placement tips, etc will greatly be appreciated!1) Never play torb on offense. Ever. 

2) Drop turrets and armor for yourself while under duress.  You take priority for armor, then healers, then flankers, then reg dps. Lvl 1 turrets take 1-3 seconds for enemies to destroy. The distance created and distraction will save you more than you think. 

3) Build Ult through long distance spam at chokes often as possible and rip molten core to zone when down in team fights.

4) Pair with shields. 

5) Get the golden gun and spam "trust me" followed by " hear me baby". Your teammates will respect it.

6) Dance emote when your MC turret shreds

7) google best torb turret locations 

8) profit




Peakd at 4050 playing only torb on my smurf attack, defence, KOTH.

1. Crossfire with your turret, like hanamura point A defence i usually put the turret in the stairs it will shot through the window while im spamming into the choke from the other side, while using corners to show the least amount of my body.

2. When DV.a uses defence matrix its time to pull out the hammer.

3. Make a turret near the enemy spawn for ultcharge at the start of the game.

4. When trying to get a level 2 up (or 3 when ulting) i will sometimes stand in front of the turret and face it while feeding myself armor so the turret wont take any dmg just to get it up. (Most all good torbs do this).

5. Use your gun, don' overcommit to your turret and switch up your turret location every once in a while to confuse the enemy.
Place your turrets where you feel it'd be awkward for the enemies to get to.

Throw down armour packs whenever you can. If everyone already has armour then throw spare ones onto the point where people can grab them easily.

Throw down a level 1 turret if you have to duel someone and a level 2 is not already set up.

When facing a hog, drop your turret in front of yourself. It might block his hook.

"!" over your turret means it's firing. If it's constantly firing then consider molten core. 
dont babysit the turret
Torb is my boy, my little golden battle demon.  Basically, if you do well with him already just ignore any whining and do your thing.  
It's your game that you bought with your money, play it how you like. 
As for strats, I rarely am anywhere near my turret, and am almost always sniping or firing towards enemies at head height.  I also enjoy charging into the enemy team spamming "Just start hammering" while swinging a golden tire iron, so take it how you will.  It's my game, and that shit entertains me. 
Torb is a little magma fueled badass, just go nuts. 
When I play torb my favorite thing to do is to walk into spawn and press H so I can play literally anything else
Torb on attack is amazing if the other teams dps are all flankers. Genji/Tracer as defense dps? Torb is going to wreck. 
Last night I played Dorado with no Support and Torb on attack... we crushed the other team. Was a great match actually. (I was Tracer btw)
All great tips. This guy hit a couple points I wanted to cover, so I'll piggyback off them-

Crossfire is important. Especially during molten core. Tanks that have strong shields can only do so in one direction. If you're making Rein decide which side to shield, he is more likely to make a mistake, and allowing your team an early pick. 

Always spawn turret. I've gotten over 30% from teams that are clueless with spawn turrets. That's an early molten core to suppress enemy ults and pushes. People will argue it ruins the element of surprise, fuck em. We don't need surprise, we're all Swedens now. -76 prolly 

I like to move my turret every team fight. Generally there's plenty of downtime to relocate, and that placement can throw off their next push. A trick for turret placement is to be cautious of enemy sight lines to safely destroy it. Make soldier/hanzo/widow expose themselves to try and destroy the turret. 

In very few instances should you be hammering your turret during a push. You can do a lot of damage without your turret, your turret is just your plus one. Never build a level 2 turret in the middle of a team fight. Drop a level 1 and use your gun. Get really good at primary fire headshots. 

Learn how to armor juggle during fights. Throw armor packs into healers when possible so the tanks don't take them. 




Asking for help on how to improve and you provide nothing. Please try to be considerate to people who play characters you don't like.

To op

From a player watching good torbs- turrets should be helping fight when it gets rough not turret v 6 then team comes and helps.
Prioritize squishes/ high impact characters first for armor. 
Molten core is great for zoning or killing
You have a huge crit box- be cautious
Long range snipe spam or shotgun that tank in the face, suprising damage

Have fun and play to improve (: sadly not everyone will support your pick but hey we can't help everyone in this world
Agree with everything u said, there is also a really good torb only named fuey500 on twitch watching how he plays at GM/top 500 is a good thing to learn.
Yep, fuey is great to watch. Him and chro are always fun together. 

Do I play better when I'm tired?
Hello,

Lately I've been noticing while playing McCree late at night, my aim drastically improves. I'm not usually too good, but not to humblebrag, people comment on my aim on McCree when I play at night. 

I'm a high school student, and have lived under the rules of wonderful but strict parents all my life. I'm not used to staying up late, so I can't say this phenomenon has been going on for a while.

My questions for you are: Is my theory legitimate? Does my aim really improve at night when I'm sleepy, or am I completely making that up and believing it? If my theory is true, why does this happen? Does this happen to anyone else?

Thank youIt sounds like when you are awake you overthink your aim. When you're tired, you're just shooting without thinking about hitting headshots, therefore hitting more shots. 

When I play hanzo/McCree high, I hit way more shots. My positioning isn't as reactive as when I'm sober, but my aim is better 
The player base changes too.

I usually start playing after I get home from work and eat. About 7pm EST. In quickplay I am usually playing with players with the same ranking as me, or higher (5 stars and up).

Around 10pm EST, I start seeing fewer and fewer silvers/golds and more 1 to 3 stars, even occasionally the no stars. Which means I am playing against players that are out of position, don't know exactly how to counter an attack or are playing characters outside of their comfort zone.

It happened tonight. I was playing Lucio and was taking on a DVa earlier, and she knew how to get me to leave her alone. Skating circles around her and punching her resulted in her smacking me in the head and me exiting the area.

2 hours later and a DVa won't pay attention to me, thinking I can't do enough damage to take her out of her mech. I just kept shooting, booping and punching and by the time she realized what was going on, her mech was down.

So you may or may not get better as you get tired, but the player base definitely changes as it gets later.
you want the real answer not these bullshit ones. your brain focuses better on what you are doing because you are tired and can't focus on other things. Google it it's true. also an anecdotal experience,  I played until 12pm the next day because I kept winning all night. it felt like I had super Ritalin focus. I went from 3200 to 3800 in one night. that was a while ago, but yea Google it, because I learned about it that night/morning .   
That makes complete sense. Thank you so much for your reply!
That makes a lot of sense. I have for the past few days been playing FFA custom games with the same group of friends, so my opponents don't change much at all. I appreciate the insight though!
7pm EDT happens when this comment is 18 hours and 45 minutes old.

You can find the live countdown here: https://countle.com/513082Xnq

---

I'm a bot, if you want to send feedback, please comment below or send a PM.
I appreciate your comment, my friends have been saying the same thing: that all my brain is focusing on is the screen when I'm tired. But don't put down other people who are trying to be friendly, I don't think their comments were bullshit at all.

So after about a week of season 6 what are your thoughts on the hero changes and impact on the meta and current state of the meta?
I feel like aside from junk being in almost every game the comps are similar to before. See a bit more Orisa who I feel is best tank in the game right now. Still have the standard genji/tracer picks(which I fucking hate as a support main). Never see any 3 tank comps, and only have 2 healers when I'm lucky. Widow seems much more viable now with the cool down decreases. Hook buff makes her a lot more mobile and able to rotate more to keep the enemies on their toes. I really liked the roadhog buff to add moving to take a breather, doesnt make him as much as a walking ult charger as before. 

I feel like overall the defense side of payload maps got buffed quite a bit, with Orisa shield buff, junk buffs ( I know most people play him attack but his ability to spam down chokes and damage shields is SUPER strong and also is able to escape attacking pharahs easier) same with widow since youre able to spam more poison traps and move around points easier and safer. 

I know that a lot of people arent happy with the meta right now, but personally I feel its due to the massive amount of people that play the game right now and many players complete unwillingness to player tank/support. Thats my only real gripe right now and I play support 95% of the time, playing Orisa or dva if by some miracle we have 2 healers before I pick. Personally I feel like we need like 2 more supports and maybe another tank to add more variety to those roles. The ana nerfs hurt her, and unless you play A LOT of ana youre probably not playing her in comp because she can be difficult, especially with genji and tracer running around all day. That leaves mercy lucio and Zen, Zen isn't enough heals to be a solo healer in most cases, lucio lacks quick burst heals and cant sustain his team under heavy burst like Ana. And mercy, is well boring old mercy, she just feels unrewarding to play, definitely excited to see what the finished product of her changes will be. 


Anywho... What's all your thoughts on the changes and the meta?I don't get why people have a problem with roadhog, he doesn't die 
Love it. Climbed 470 sr playing mainly pharah and junkrat, the two most skillful characters. But srsly junkrat a mine needs less damage because I am seeing a lot of tilt because of it and he is a little too dominant at lower ranks like plat where I am
I will say that Orisa is a lot weaker at higher levels where fights tend to occur off of the payload/point more frequently. Her lack of mobility is a large issue, while it's hard to break through her, she gets run down rather easily
I mean he is a tank
He does with orb of discord and a few headshots ;). But hog was amazing when you had the one shot combo, I feel like lately people have been trying to figure out a good way to play him thats not about flanking and one shottingg. His new changes make him more of an actual up front tank, which after the one shot nerf until was near impossible. But now hes able to be up front and take damage and heal and take even more damage with the damage reduction. But my main problem is hes a walking out charge, he doesn't actually block damage like other tanks he just soaks it up and heals himself. I think he pairs well with a shield tank like Orisa where he can hook them behind the shield and the team can fuck them up. He just requires more team play now I think, has to group with him his team to get kills
I really like 2 mines and most people do, it adds mobility and lets him reach places he couldnt before, but the damage is rather high.  He can burst any non tank down almost immediately, you get caught in his trap youre 100% dead, one of his nades and a mine and instadeath. Just lower mine damage by like 20 so he cant Insta blow up people or something. Junk was non existant before so its the classic case of trying to buff a non meta hero into the meta but in turn over doing it and becomes op. But idk junk doesnt bother me as much as other heroes, I hate the super mobile dpsers that always end up in the backlines shitting on me while I play Zen or ana. Only support decent against him is lucio because you can at least boop him to create some semblece of space. 
im kinda learning that as im working my way through upper gold, she doesnt really fare well vs the dive comp, genji tracer and reaper mosttly, i aslo have a lot of trouble with pharah (but who doesnt amirite) she flys over my barrier and fucks me up.  my favorite map to play her is hanamura tho, shes super good at guarding the chokes with her shield.  There are some games where il only die like once or twice and i get like 25+ elims, but also been having games lately where im switching out afterf a few mins because i literally die as soon as i get to the point, im working on figuring out when i can use her tho because she just feels super strong in the right situation

You're absolutely correct!
She's very strong on illios well and Nepal sanctum! And that's not to say she sucks always because if you use her well you can keep climbing, she's just not as versatile as the other tanks currently

[Meta] I made a logo for this subreddit
[The Logo (Can't see the white text unfortunately)](https://i.imgur.com/baFTJFI.png)  

[In Action](https://i.imgur.com/Ivw1meK.png)

CSS code adjusted to achieve that:

```#header .redditname a {  
    bottom: 60px;  
    width: 521px;  
    height: 150px;  
}
```

Any thoughts and feedback?

^(Edit: Tweaked the letter I and S and updated the images)

[More variations](https://i.imgur.com/HfSRXba.png)Thank you for putting this together :)

We'll discuss it and get back to you.
[deleted]
I like it, the current one is pretty ugly.
MODS PLS
I like this.
To the top with you my man, this needs to become the new logo.
Nice work even though I much prefer the current one. It's kinda clunky but the graduation cap icon says "university" and "learning Reddit" without needing text.
looking good
I really like the third one in your more variations picture. Really reminds me of an actual university crest. Very nicely done!
What I don't like about it is that is has text in it. The moment a logo has to use text to say what it wants to say it kind of failed to serve its purpose in my opinion. 

An interesting somewhat relate discussion is [this ted talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pnv5iKB2hl4) about flags. Which I advise anyone to listen to.
Could you make one for the official subreddit as well? Their current one is atrocious
I love it.
I like it but the In action needs some larger lettering and/or the logo smaller. As it is now the Logo overpowers the words...but I do like it a lot. 
This is great! I hope it gets changed to this. 
It looks nice, but it doesn’t work at all at small sizes. The current one works at all sizes.
So my stickers will be outdated? I demand new ones!

JK, this new design looks pretty good.
That looks real nice!
I'd like to see this sub's banner use the logo that has a graduation cap on the OW logo.

OP's design is certainly better than the current banner, but I still think it's too busy. It feels like clutter of cocentric circles + too much detail from having 4 icons on outer rim + text that is hard to read at a glance.
I actually really like the "university graduation cap" and how it fits into the OW logo.  I thought that was a neat concept.
Looks really good.
Looks great! Imo the support/tank/defence/attack logos are a bit unnecessary but still looks wayy better than the current one.
Yaa its clearly just photosshoped
Video linked by /u/edwinnum:

Title|Channel|Published|Duration|Likes|Total Views
:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:
[Why city flags may be the worst-designed thing you've never noticed &#124; Roman Mars](https://youtube.com/watch?v=pnv5iKB2hl4)|TED|2015-05-14|0:18:19|57,332+ (95%)|3,024,652

> Roman Mars is obsessed with flags — and after you watch...

---

[^Info](https://np.reddit.com/r/youtubot/wiki/index) ^| [^/u/edwinnum ^can ^delete](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=_youtubot_&subject=delete\%20comment&message=dmopn68\%0A\%0AReason\%3A\%20\%2A\%2Aplease+help+us+improve\%2A\%2A) ^| ^v2.0.0
yeah that looks shopped
Yeah we wanted to replace the current one for a while now but never got around to it.

Requesting Overwatch Competitive Feedback for Analysis
Hey. I'm gathering data from the community about how the general views on certain aspects of competitive are. I'm not collecting any personal data, and would be sharing the results on this subreddit. Depending on the amount of data I receive, I plan on doing some analysis, and would like to use it as I study and practice data science. Your responses are appreciated. Link to form : https://goo.gl/forms/FwHaVtDaoB0gwCEG3


The form requires a sign in that prevents multiple entries from the same user. No personal data is being recorded. Thanks for participating!

&nbsp;

**[Update :]**  Woah there! 365 submissions. That's certainly more than I expected! The data has been really interesting to look at. I'm closing the survey now. A summary of the results should be visible for anyone who wants to look at it. I would be looking at the data more closely and would be posting more detailed results. Thank you everyone who participated, and the mods who allowed the survey!Option 17 is my favorite hero
>Which of these picks do you find to be the equivalent of throwing?

maybe add a 'none of the above' option

>Report anyone who throws on the enemy team if told to

maybe add 'report anyone who throws'
"Report non abusive attacks such as "Swap, You're Useless"
Sorry, how is that "non abusive"? I completed poll but there were other dubiously worded questions such as this one.
I'd be interested to see what games people are comparing Overwatch to in terms of toxicity. Played some Dota 2 this past weekend... Overwatch is a big happy family compared to that playerbase.
This is a good idea. I hope we get to see a result for players across various elo's. 
Choosing a 25 slice pie chart to display data of what our mains are probably wasn't the best idea. Otherwise, good survey.
Is there a repository of past OU surveys? Results were interesting. Thank you!
This is a great survey, very detailed. I learned something about myself and why I can't get out of gold every other season and silver this season.

I think I play way to many heros and arn't any good with any one specific hero.

In saying that, down in silver for some reason this season (all though I'm about to climb out today with a few more wins) I went 63 elims with Junkrat which isn't even my main and we still lost. It's definitely a team game and no one person can ever carry, I beleive IDDQD proved this when he went 80 something elims in a match but his other team mates wouldn't switch off to try and counter (there's a youtube vid somewhere with him playing mcree doing this). 

My point is, your whole team has to work together to counter, most of the time one tricking and never changing/adapting regardless how good you are with any specific hero just keeps you locked in the elo hell everyone mentions. 

I could be wrong, feel free to correct me.

Great survey all the same, thanks for putting in the time and effort, we can all learn something here.
Shh.. nobody saw anything.
Those are checkboxes so any answer is optional, you can select none of them and proceed to the next question. Thanks your your feedback.
I don't think that falls in the "Abusive Chat" category literally if no vulgar word had been used, but still is a verbal attack directed towards someone. These are grey areas where opinions might differ, and if so that would be indicated by the results. What else did you find dubious? Thanks for your feedback.
i play league and i wouldn't blame the playerbase but rather just the way mobas are designed. moba games bring out the worst in people. the games are much longer and individual performance is much more apparent.

intentionally feeding the enemy kills will 99% of the time make the game unwinnable for your team. it's arguably worse than afking since feeding the enemy team will make them ridiculous strong.

overwatch doesn't compare in this regard because the worst you can really do to sabotage a game is feed the enemy ult charge or pick a bad hero in order to try throw the game. a 5v6 feels infinitely more winnable than a 4v5 game in league.
Perhaps that deserves a thread of its own
Honestly I've been met with the same if not worse toxicity in upper diamond. If I see another 3 people all lock in dps without saying a word then die and blame the other dps then have a 3 person cluster fuck of intentionally throwing I might just quit playing cause I've lost 300 sr since placing and 9/10 times it's for this reason.
The view responses page of a form is standardized. 
But this soultion doesnt work, cause the question about "Which of these picks do you find to be the equivalent of throwing" I dont belive anyone of them are throwing, yet you stats, doesnt reflect that as i didnt tick a box. Instead it gives wrong info. Cause alot of ppl dont think you can throw by picking a certain hero. Yet you stats doesnt show this. It just says 173 answer this question instead of the 250 ish who actually did.
Hope you understand. :) Cause they way it is now, it wont give correct results. 
I skipped them but didnt know if I could or if the test would force me to go back and fill them. It's not clear that you can in fact skip them so I imagine at least some people will answer even if they don't agree with any option.
so telling someone they are "useless" is not abuse. ok. As far as criticism of the poll - take this question: "Which of these picks do you find to be the equivalent of throwing?". 40% so far saying that "off healer as solo healer". Based on your wording of the question, how will you interpret that data? That 40% think the off healer is throwing for not picking mercy, or that 40% think the team is throwing for not picking a second healer?
I used to play a ton of League. I don't know if it's gotten worse, it wasn't terrible when I played. The stuff I was seeing on Dota 2 was worse than anything I've ever seen. Even complementing my teammates and the like was responded to with slurs and insults... from my other teammates!
I can get the exact figures from the excel sheet after the survey is closed, but right now you're correct. It seems to ignore unselected values. I had not taken this into account earlier. Thanks for informing.
Thanks for informing, I'll make it clear.
I would say this is another grey area where context matters, and as you rightly pointed out this is something I missed out while creating the survey. While writing the question, I considered just the situation if it gave a much lesser chance of winning or not. How one reaches the situation should've been explored further in another question. At the moment I decided only to take into account answering "Is our team throwing" rather than "who on our team is throwing" for that particular question. The survey is still open and accepting inputs, Once it is closed I would be posting results, trying to answer similar questions as yours. Your criticism has been taken into account and would be helpful while looking at similar things. 
I mean there are plenty of situations where someone on your team is actually useless. Telling them straight up isn't the most eloquent way of letting them know but it still seems like more of a legitimate frustration than straight up flaming. 
It's not abuse if it is factually correct. It's just a statement of fact.
The term 'useless' is subjective by definition because you're judging some function or utility in your own content and by your terms. I would say that it's definitely potentially abusive to call someone useless, and if it's potentially abusive, then it should be labeled as abusive.

"I don't think you're helping the team much because we're not able to ____(fill in the blank i.e. capitalize on your hero's abilities)____."

Is that so much harder to say?
Are you kidding? The term "useless" is not subjective by definition. Can it be? I suppose it CAN be, but it is not subjective "by definition" at all. If that player is performing no useful function, are objectively useless. The fact that you are trying to argue with that is mind boggling. 

The fact that "you would say it's definitely potentially abusive" is subjective. THAT is what subjective means. Your interpretation of it is different than mine, but both are neither correct nor incorrect. 

In the case of a useless item (or person), they can be objectively useless and calling them such is not abusive. It may be rude. It may hurt someones feelings. But just because it may do those things does not make it abusive.

By YOUR definition, then, getting a vaccination is abusive, because it hurts that person. Scolding a dog for shitting on the floor is abusive, because it hurts the dogs feelings (and they don't understand). Telling a child NO, you can't have more dessert is abusive because it hurts the childs feelings.

That is patently ludicrous. 

Personally, if I'm being useless, I'd want to know about it. Now, the person who is making that assessment may be incorrect, and then it might fall under your definition of abusive, but THAT is subjective.

Calling someone useless who is useless is not abusive.

I guess we're of different opinions :-)

But some practical advice: it'll probably help you and your teammates for the better if you worded your frustrations differently.

Great tip for solo q players to win more games.
Don't solo q.

Try and find at least 1 buddy around your rank with who you can have a good time while also winning.

And dont find a buddy that is a dps main unless he can flex because you will just get the same old all dps games.

Find someone who is willing to flex so that the two of you can make sure that at least 33% of the team is doing whatever they can to win.

And try to synergize with each other. (Rein-Ana, Pharah-Mercy etc)This is kind of the anti-tip for solo queue. It also sounds very biased and not at all constructive for those who do prefer solo queue.

While I'm not a fan of solo queue either and prefer at minimum to duo (3-4 being my optimal preference), I still respect the solo queuer and their preference to play in solo queue. Some people find it easier/better to play solo than to group up in the first place.
Great tip for skaters to never get any injuries!

Don't skate.
Real advice if you want it.

Play your best hero that has SOME type of control over a outcome if things dont look well. I like hog even post nerf TaB buff.

If im down one but positioned well i have a few critical moments after said pick to make a play.

The key here is to absolutly ONLY focus on what you need to do to win if its to close to have a carry potential.

This means findind ONE win condition and playing to achieve it.
I've actually had the best luck soloqueing. Maybe I just get better faster than my duo partners but I end up getting held back unless I'm playing with my master friend. I've gone from 800to 3250 solo queue.
Nah I got this weird curse for every time I queue with someone in comp I lose every match not even joking I've play around 30 games with different people and we lost everytime
"Great tip for solo Q"

"don't do it"

nice
I've only played a few months and the solo q life just isn't fun anymore.  I can't find my way out of silver and a few good games in a row are followed by an entire night of toxicity.  


So basically your solo queue advice is don't solo queue?
I think without the "stay as a team?" option after matches, I'd give up on OW entirely. I love finding a random group, talking and cooperating together and then just playing with them for a few matches and see how we do.

Doesn't happen all the time but if you're polite and sound like you're a good teammate, you'll get some nice people in return - as opposed to mic silence anyway.

I dont have friends who play this game nor have I ever enjoyed being forced to play with a buddy all the time. I game on my terms and meeting new people is fun!
Bad idea. Most players belong at their rank. If you duo with them, they'll most likely be an anchor. 
Personally I think soloq is way easier than grouping. Grouping is a hit or a miss and you have longer q times 
Personally I think soloq is way easier than grouping. Grouping is a hit or a miss and you have longer q times 
find out what the most imminent threat is and swap heroes/work to fix it - assuming you can play heroes that can right the ship, anyway.
What hero are you playing when solo queueing?
Everyone usually picks DPS and if I'm lucky 1 tank.
So I play Lucio or Zen.  

If we have a good comp, we usually win or at least it's fun and competitive.  
I used to main McCree and was pretty good at him, the problem was I just couldn't carry. I started playing Ana, still hitscan, does decent DPS and sleep dart is amazing for controlling characters that no one else can/will handle. Tracer, Genji etc. Ana is kind of a jack of all trades, she can dish decent damage, stop enemies in their tracks and keep them from healing WHILE healing her own team. I managed to climb into plat playing her so far (solo), looking to hit diamond this season with her as well. Not sure if you are a DPS kind of person but she is kind of the perfect balance to both and she has awesome survivability.

New Hog, New me-need help with aiming/securing kills
So I had about 35 hours on Hog before they nerfed him, and hadn't really touched him until last patch when they buffed his self heal. I really like how he feels with the heal and how hard he can tank ults/quickly charge his-my big issues if securing kills and tracking with his gun when the hook is on CD. How can I be more effective at putting out damage and securing kills/what is the best way to help the team with new Hog aside from body blocking and hooking?Your best bet to secure kills better is by hooking your targets towards your team (i.e dont flank!) and having a better follow-up (second LMB or melee) if you didn't one shot your target. It sounds to me that you're just not hitting your shots, so make sure you're hitting those right-clicks to deal damage from a far and left-clicks for those follow-ups. 

Also I would try working on flick-shots as some people find that method easier than tracking at close ranges.
Land a shot, then hook. Also with hog's buff, you can actually play him as a tank, brawling on the front lines and soaking up a lot of damage. Your overwatch JUST made a video that answers your questions perfectly I think. Lemme grab the link.
I've found the hook combo has become a two-piece skill shot as opposed to a one-piece skill shot. Before, there was a skill shot with the hook projectile in order to secure a kill. Now you have to land a *meaty* right click–maximum damage body shot or partial crit–before landing the hook. The cap for pulling off solo kills as Hog has increased.

His team utility now is not so much a solo kill hero as much as he is a sweeper. Play midline, peel for supports, and use right click to finish off low HP targets. He has to play extremely defensive now because he cannot output viable offensive pressure.
Lots of good comments already, heresy two cents:

I play new hog similar to how you'd play doomfist; you want to push upon front of main tanks just barely, get a hook, push back behind shield, repeat. 

I find that I have more success running hog as a dps rather than second tank, generally I want 2 tanks plus hog. Hog is great with a friendly Orisa, her halt plus your hook makes for easy kills; let her halt then hook as they're running away so that Orisa can help cleanup as they're being pulled in. 

Against shield heavy comps his entry role is the same as it was before; win the shield war by unloading on enemy barriers then hook the tank in the second they're down. Play hog as a tank buster early and cleanup late. 

Hog is great against doomfist, so make life hell for doomfist whenever possible. 
I think that most players are no longer using the shot-melee combo after landing a hook, and are instead opting for a second shot, as the rate of fire has increased.  

Another common strategy right now is using the hook to interrupt D.Va using DM and getting her close to your team to be surrounded and demeched.
https://youtu.be/9olgX7dkaUo
https://youtu.be/9olgX7dkaUo
I love being that friendly Orisa. 


If there are two- three teammates behind me, I will walk right into a Rein to get him to charge me. I survive it, heal, let the team work on him, or if he decides to do the smart thing and throw a flame at me I will hook him. 

Orisa is irritating, but you can heal through her gun at close range. I go through her shield and force her back. Aggressive Orisa is dangerous so he's decent at countering them with some help from a Pharah or Junkrat. The thing is he definitely needs help. He can't take the enemy apart by himself anymore. 
Yeah this is why I think he combos nicely with low mobility tanks; being the enemy to you. 

What can I learn from sites/apps like Overbuff & Oversumo?
I have the oversumo app and I sometimes check Overbuff (https://www.overbuff.com/players/psn/trentbakersfield?mode=competitive) but I really do not know what to take from those.  

Which stats should I focus on?  Any advice?  you can learn how to obsess over stats. As shaq once said "The day I stopped looking at stats is the day I started winning." 

Oversumo and Overbuff don't really show you where you should improve. All it shows you is that you are improving. 

Ex:If I die a lot, my avg damage goes down. But I have to figure out from that low stat what is causing it. It could be my positioning, it could be that I need to shoot more, etc. 

You should focus more on improving game play and use it as a tool to see how you've improved, not for finding what you should improve at.
Well first off, stats are only a good indicator with enough trials. Games take about 20 minutes, and there are 16 maps in comp. So in order to play all of them once, you need to play about five hours and 20 minutes. In statistics there is a rule that says you need 30 samples to reach your true statistical mean. In other word, you would need to play at least 160 hours on a single character to get a good sample. This doesn't take into account all the various characters you play with. So your sample size will never be big enough, and by the time you get it, you've probably changed your style of play. Bottom line is that the only useful statistic is your accuracy, and even that can be manipulated by shooting shields.

Don't chase statistics. Instead simply compare yourself to a pro that runs your same character, then compare your statistics. I realized that I stood on the payload way too much as soldier when I saw that Surefour hardly ever stands on payload. Then watch vod reviews of yourself and vod reviews of pros. Try to guess what the pros will do (pause the video and make a guess). When you review your vod, try to think about what you could have been doing. It'll be pretty eye opening.
Any rating you get for a particular hero (ex. Master with S76) doesn't mean you necessarily belong in a Master SR. It's best to interpret it as: "you play S76 far better than others at your SR".

As you climb in SR (say you get to Platinum SR), in theory your Oversumo rating for S76 will decrease because now you're facing tougher competition. That's assuming your skill level with S76 remains the same, of course.

Understanding that ratings on Oversumo are relative - it's a good tool to know which areas to focus on to improve.
Good to compare to others if new. "Oh I average 5k dmg as Soldier and most others have 15k. Maybe im not playing him correctly." I have comparatively good stats for my rank on zen but winrate was not great. Over the course of the season I got his win % to 61. the stats were generally the same except for average deaths, those went down from 9 to 6.5, then I noticed a slow trend of my overall healing and trans healing went up. Less deaths, more orb uptime and maybe an extra ult per game. 

Making those connections don't require stats, but I find it has a longer lasting impact on how I approach the game. 
Dont use oversumo or overbuff.
Oversumo is my favorite. All of its stats are performance **per life**. So what should you focus on? Of course you could focus on all the stats at once, but that could be overwhelming for anyone. I'd say the most important and easiest thing to focus on is to **die less**. How? Through better positioning and not being caught without your team.

TL;DR Good positioning reduces deaths -> improves every stat!
Honestly nothing. Oversumo is neat but pretty much useless in practicality. You're better off working on having a good attitude and analyzing what you did good/bad in the match.
My Oversumo says I'm a masters mei but I'm heavily meining her and I'm in high plat so I'm going to say it doesn't tell you shit.  
I'm a joke of a basketball player and I make free throws more consistently than Shaq. Good sentiment, but I think a better comparison would be the age old 

"Numbers don't lie."

They definitely don't tell the whole story with overwatch or any sport for that matter, but there's definitely merit in looking at them at least once. 
More accurately "you have better stats." There's countless ways to stat farm in poor ways that don't help your team win. 
> TL;DR Good positioning reduces deaths -> improves every stat!

So while lowering bad deaths is a good thing, you need to take the deaths stat with a grain of salt. Avoiding deaths at all costs may cause you to play too passively at times and/or make poor decisions.

If your team goes in as 6 and you all get wiped, but you manage to bait out 1 or 2 ults, those are probably good deaths. You trade some clock/point percentage for a large advantage in the next fight. If you didn't push into the fight enough though because you wanted to minimise deaths and retreated early, it's possible the enemy wouldn't have extended as many ults. You lived yes, but it wasn't necessarily good for the team.

The deaths you want to reduce are the meaningless ones. Getting poked to death or dying out of position, but having as few as deaths as possible is not inherently a good thing.
Yes, on Overbuff it looks like I die a lot (I do).  But on Oversumo, my stats for my top 3 guys are usually platinum or master.  Which confuses me.
> performance per life

Not anymore.
dying less is the most important part of fps success.
You being able to make some free throws doesn't mean or take a way anything from Shaqs quote. Also I doubt you could if it wasn't in a game. Players are way better at shooting without the fatigue and pressure of the stage and lights. 

Stats can tell you some things. But most people tend to get obsessed with stats like accuracy and KD ratio without any context. Especially in a game
Like overwatch where it's night and day from one game to the next. 
Sort of. What would be the point of farming stats in the first place, at the expense of actually winning? Almost nobody goes around bragging about their stats on Oversumo.
Anyone that's asking for this sort of advice doesn't need to worry about that much detail. In my tier [mid-high plat], teams don't go in as 6. In the rare case they do, they almost always win. The situations you're talking about seem high diamond and above.

The asker will learn enough through experience to learn when and when not to die. And if you live, it's always good for the team. I mean actually escape and live, not get picked 5 seconds after the rest of your team trying to run away. Staggering is the worst way to die.
Here's the trap with sites like these.

They can only look at the raw numbers. Say you're in mid-silver, and you get put together against 6 five year olds, who just mash on the keyboard. You'll have a higher *everything* than the best progamer recorded in those raw stats, but that doesn't mean that you should be in GM. The solution of this paradox lies in the fact, that clearly if we took your mid-silver skills to a GM match, you would basically have 0 in everything, and all your stats would simply show bottom bronze.

**These kind of apps aren't good for determining *where you should be*, but they can give a picture of a given hero you play.**

Some months ago my friend(he doesn't play comp because he doesn't like it, but last time I saw he was put together with Master-GMs in QP) showed me Oversumo, and we looked through some heroes. I was playing Roadhog at the time(when he could still punish people for bad positioning), so I was interested in looking him up. What I saw was a horribly low accuracy, and a somewhat high kill rate and an insane hook accuracy. I already knew what this meant, since I consciously tried to train him that way, but in this case it showed that my practice was paying off. Basically what I did back then, I rather waited a bit(2-3 sec max) and didn't really do anything, but made sure the hook hits, and made sure the shot afterwards is lined up for the instantkill. Other than that I just used the gun for chip damage in large fights even from a distance when there were no healers around, or shot down shields when needed. Doing all this got me a more consistent kill rate than my teammates at the time, so I saw that the hook consistency I built over time was useful, but the stats also showed the holes I left in my skill with him.

Oversumo and the like are good for getting indepth analysis and self-reflection you gain on a hero when you consider the seen stats and your experience with the given hero. To anyone else those stats are worthless, but to you, they can confirm whether your sub-skills with a given hero really improved as you think, or you just thought so in the middle of the chaos. Also shows clear weaknesses.
Focus on getting every stat for the hero to the same tier you want to be at. If you have a stat at platinum ii vs iv, focus on the ii. Once the minimum of the stats is where you want to be, you should be able to climb pretty steadily in duo queue.
Oversumo compares how you do compared to your tier, not where u would rank...it doesnt mean u are master, it means u are better than your enemies stat wise

Overbuff is a better representation of the full spectrum

If u die a lot, learn to die less...its that simple
Because it's taking into account players across all classes. So a Mercy will have far fewer kills and damage done than a Reaper.
I mostly meant unintentional. "I have great healing therefore I must be good" won't help if you're just healing your roadhog meanwhile your soldier and genji are dying to an enemy pharah. 

That's probably a silver tier example, but all of the minor choices as a healer add up. Maybe you choose to produce the highest healing output in a given moment as opposed to healing the crucial targets. 

Need advice on picking a new main, because the incoming changes to D.Va have been a pretty big turn-off.
I'd like to preface this by saying that I'm looking to climb in competitive.  I recently broke into platinum and would like to keep this upward trend moving!  Since I've climbed the most when focusing on a few heroes, I'd like to keep my number of champs to around three.  So far that's been Zenyatta, Genji, and D.Va; but just from what I've experienced in the PTR, D.Va is not only no longer viable as a real tank, she's just not as fun to play.  So while I recognize my lineup could really benefit from a tank, the only other tank I enjoy is Orisa who can't contribute as much on offense.  Deep down in my heart, my third pick would be Tracer, but I'm reluctant to focus on two flankers.  Any advice would be greatly appreciated, thanks!Id learn a hitscan as well as tracer. I'd also suggest learning another tank or two, as well as another healer. I think if you truly want to be able to climb in comp you should be comfortable with at least 2 of each role type.
I'd encourage you to still play D.va as I think she'll be fine after the ptr patch, but if you are looking for a tank to replace D.va I'd recommend Zarya as it'll teach you plenty of new skills and your team will love you since you'll be setting up huge plays.
Any particular reason you don't enjoy rein & zarya? Both get to play more aggressively than orisa. If you can share what it is that you don't like about them, it'll probably help us give a better answer to your question.
I think she's just a buffed version now. Sure she has less matrix up time, but it's up more often now. You have more opportunities to stop burst damage. You just meed to be a little more careful of when you use it. 
I dont see why everyone is bent out of shape because of matrix change. Usually by the time you have it on for a few secs noone is shooting at you anymore, rarely do you use the full charge at once. The way I see it shes better now because it charges faster. The enemy will think matrix is down and you charge in and block their shit pop back out and do your regular d va thing. But in reality the ptr can only do so much, have to see a week or so after shes in comp games to see thr effect it has. And plus shes getting a whole new ability, and can shoot was using boosters, 2 definite buffs in my eyes. 
Roadhog nerfs 2.0 but this time it makes sense and is balanced.
Can second this 100%. Or at least 2-2-1
I couldn't agree more, and I'd like to think I am comfortable with at least 2 from each category, but I'd like to focus on three "mains" and then have my "comfortable with" characters to switch to if the comp needs it.
>Id learn a hitscan as well as tracer. 


Tracer IS a hitscan :p


Minor pet peeve: everyone says hitscan when what they *really* mean is long-range dps.

**edit**

*Of course* I know that people *think* they know what they mean when they say "hitscan." But it's a stupid turn-of-phrase, and they're wrong. Mei icicles and hanzo arrows, for example, work FINE at mid-long range, even for killing Pharah. Half of the hitscan cast does NOT work fine at mid-long range, so using hitscan to mean "long-range" DPS is actually just dumb. If you mean long-range, then say long-range. It's honestly not that hard.
I have a problem landing Zarya's lob's, and I also have a problem landing Rein's pins.  Rein is definitely more satisfying to play, but constantly missing those pins can really get me down.  I  try not to do it until it's necessary, and I love his voice lines.  I just feel stuck behind a shield that team-mates rarely capitalize on.

Why downvote if he is right?
Just to be clear, this post isn't a D.Va debate.  I love D.Va's style and can appreciate that she may still be viable.  I just don't find her that fun any more because they've reduced her damage mitigation and increased her "in your face" style of gameplay. She's essentially a brawler who's escape mechanism is to run in the backline once she pops and hope you get mech back before someone dives you.  
They mean long range hitscan dps but that's not really how language works. If everyone knows what you mean then that's what it is.
You're right, but typically hitscan in this game means "hitscan without dramatic fall-off".  D.Va is "hit-scan" but it doesn't mean much until she's in melee range.
Zarya lobs & rein pins can simply be practiced tbh. If you've managed to learn genji up to plat level, you can learn these things.

I hear you on people not making use of rein's shield though, that's very difficult to work around. Part of what I like about orisa is that you can directly plonk a shield in front of people to force them to get value out of it, no matter how oblivious they are. Similar to dva's matrix in that respect, as you'll no doubt be well aware of. Zarya also provides reactive blocking that doesn't necessarily require teammates to actively follow up on to add value.

Everything seems to be pointing towards zarya:

* is a 'tank' tank, can create space effectively
* not as defence-skewed as orisa
* not reliant on team coordination to provide protection and generally do work (grav works best with coordination of course, but it's not hard for teammates to capitalise on it reactively at a bare minimum, i.e. 'kill the grav'd things')
Because he is not right at all!! You had matrix for 4 seconds. To have it up for 4 seconds you have to use it for 2 seconds recharge for 8 seconds and the you can use it again for 2 seconds. This is way worse then before you need 12 seconds for 4 seconds matrix uptime. You couldve blocked for 4 seconds and in 2 more seconds then now you have it back at full again. Damage won't make up for this. You can't block longer ults and you will either have to ear a ult or protect a teammate every 8 seconds. Way worse then before. 
Theyre making her more of an aggressive damage dealer than damage mitigator is all. I feel like overall the style will be the same. But I like playing diva as like a mid range Winston. Jump in fuck some people up block some damage, boost out get healed repeat. 
I do not identify "hitscan" as "long range" and I'm sure others do too. I don't think I want language to work that way and rather people use words correctly instead. 
Is Zen hitscan?
I'm gonna have to think on this, thanks for... "weighing in".... ^Get ^it? ^^Get ^^it?
You're not wrong, she's just not a tank anymore.
You're not wrong, but 90% of the time you hear someone ask,"Can we get a hitscan?" in team chat, they're saying it because Pharrah needs to be countered; not because Tracer and Reaper are in the cool club.
It doesn't really matter what you want dude it's just what is. What is correct English anyway? You wouldn't even understand people that spoke English 200 years ago. Language evolves.
No. Zen's balls are projectiles 
That would be correct.
Of course language evolves, but people keep that as an excuse and not once they give me a similar example. I remain unconvinced that words getting a completely different meaning counts as language evolving so much as people just misusing them. 

Well that's my opinion anyway, I don't expect anyone to agree with it and this isn't the place to be discussing this so I'll just stop here while I can :)
Yes, I know that.

But Zen works great at dealing long range damage.


Zen can do great damage long range, but it's not reliable because of projectile speed.  I can discord Pharrah, but if she's juking in the air at all, it's a 50/50 chance at best for my orbs hit her until she's closer to the ground.  Most of Zen's long range damage is dealt when he can right click into a group.


Mouse sensitivity and aiming
I've always had a problem maintaining a steady and consistent aim so I looked up what mouse sensitivity most pro players use and to my surprise, a lot of pros seem to have really low sensitivity according to this chart: http://on-winning.com/overwatch-pro-sensitivity-settings-setups-monitor-mouse-keyboard-headset/

Have I just been completely out of the loop? I use 22 mouse sensitivity. Would it be worthwhile to get used to lower sensitivity?Do you have trouble aiming with your 22 mouse sensitivity? What heroes do you primarily play? 

A good starting spot is 800 DPI and 5 sensitivity. Then adjust from there. If it's too slow, then go higher. If it's too high, then go lower. You want to swipe your mouse across your mousepad and be able to do a 360 spin. Again, it's all preference.
get a large mouse pad (something with a length like the qck heavy). I agree 800 5 is a good starting point but since your used to high sens I'd go for 800 6 or 7 and try to get used to that. It is not beneficial to be able to do a lot more than a 180 from center of pad to edge of pad because you never really need to do much more than a 180. So you gain almost nothing and lose stability by being able to do a 360 or more from center of pad to edge.

&nbsp;

It is helpful to be able to do a little more than a 180 from center of pad to edge so that you have some room to aim left after the 180 before you re-center mouse.
22 mouse sensitivity doesn't mean anything until we know your mouse dpi/cpi setting.  Average pro player is about 800dpi and 5 in-game sens.  Some are a bit more, some a bit less.
Yes it really does help with consistent aim. You'll need a bigger mouse pad though....
use [iostux's guide](https://youtu.be/GRFWLJazYYo) for calibrating your sensitivity.

few things to note:

low sensitivity = easier to aim especially for hit scan like MC, widow, 76, ana, zen who needs accuracy

high sensitivity = good for tracking and vision, useful for characters like winston, zarya, rein, symmetra, doomfist, mercy who are more concerned about flicking your screen every where, doing 180 turns and doesn't require any aim.
Yep yep yep. I've settled on 1600dpi 2.75 sens which is 5.5 sens at 800, you'll work out your arm more than at 22 but the precision is worth it. 

Do you know your dpi? 
I wasn't too sure on my DPI since I had to enable a setting to actually change it (I think it was at max by default, so 1800). I put it down to 800 and I'm playing at around 9-11.5 sensitivity in-game and I've noticed a really big difference in my accuracy!
Mine is 800 dpi 4.86 sens
After a month or two of that I'd recommend moving down again, I think you'll find the sweet spot is somewhere between 5 and 7

Who's the easiest Torb counter to learn?
I main Tracer, and flex to Winston and Lucio. I can also fill Zen, Rein, and Sombra. (Or a shitty Mercy.)

I've found Sombra to be a nice Bastion counter in the early game. She's pretty easy to play in a way that makes life hell for the robot.

What I haven't found is a straightforward Torb counter. He makes life hell for my flankers (and for me if I'm playing Tracer). I can't take down a high-ground Turret all that quickly with any of my Hero pool other than Zen.

In the few hours I've logged with Torb, I felt my hardest counter was Pharah, but Pharah has one of the highest skill floors in the game. I don't think it's worth it to spend a hundred hours learning her just to deal with turrets. 

So, holding aside Pharah, who's your nomination for a reasonably easy, hard-ish counter to Torb? Note: not the Hero you use to counter Torb yourself, but the one you think would be best for a player looking to mix in a new Hero just when Torb is doing work. 

I have my suspicions, but don't want to influence the answer.You can zone him/his turret pretty well with Mei's wall and bombard his giant crit box with icicles. Orisa is good for denying the turret as well.
Widowmaker is number 1, Torb and his turret are easy hitboxes for her to hit.

Orisa is a number 2, she can shoot the turrets down quick if they're not behind a shield.

Hanzo is number 3, for same reasons as Widowmaker. 

D.va can do it ok now, even better after the next patch with her missiles.
It takes two heroes, but a Pharah+Mercy combo generally destroys a Torb. I guess it depends on your own playstyle, but I wouldn't consider Pharah particularly difficult to play. Especially when fighting Torb it's really about locating his turret, and peaking it. And Zen's not bad, but won't counter the Torb completely. He can get a lot of damage on a turret though.
Widow.  It's pretty much only aiming.  Good positioning is important but i feel like it's also obvious where u have to be
I'd go with Soldier or one of the snipers. Rockets will help you deal with the turret and torb himself is easy to hit.
Sombra, you already play her. She can pretty much get torbs turret and torbjorn himself if hes jerking off beside it in two clips if he doesnt have armour, plus emp can shut down a molten core turret easy, but youre going to want to wait until he pops it.
My suggestion is to put 20 hours into widow in qp.

I'm a struggling gold ATM, but the ability to instantly run off a phara, long rang a bastion or turret, and do some decent zoning is something a pull outta the bag every now and again.

20 hours is usually enough time for you to understand basic positioning and what comps not to play her into. The bonus is the random games where you don't get countered and feel like a rock star
Soldiers probably the easiest. I use hanzo to counter torb as he has higher burst damage, but Soldier does the job just as well with a self heal and good mobility. 

Biotic field makes torb turrets really easy to take down. 
Zen can counter turret. You can out range it if the site lines are long (zen has no damage falloff), or RMB charged shot peaking around a corner can "one shot" it
76. Or you can just take it down with Zenyatta-Rightclickyatta
I've been using Soldier: 76 lately. I think he's really good for it. I also use him to kill the Bastion. Tap tap helix is a really good combo for both of them
You asked for 'not pharah' but the answer is.. still pharah.

She might have a high bar of entry for playing her well *in general*, but don't let that put you off in this case - if your primary objective is countering torb turrets that have your team suppressed, with pharah it's a cakewalk. Turrets don't dodge your rockets after all. You can pick off turrets left out in the open at your leisure from a distance, and for turrets behind or under cover, remove them with indirect fire.
pharha, 3 rockets to the turret
Good answers. I like the Orisa choice better. With 10 minutes tops on Mei, I'm pretty sure I'd get shredded by anyone *other* than Torb.

Out of curiosity, can you freeze the turret?
Pharah might not be intuitive for people who are more used to a two-dimensional fighting field, but she can longrange, splash and deny turrets to any Torb. the only thing you have to practice is staying out of range. Not like you have to lead the target.
Makes sense if it's a place that lends itself to long sight lines (Numbani comes to mind). Does that work on a map with lots of angles and corners like Hanamura A, Volskaya B, Anubis B, Nepal Village, etc?
Widow is only going to work for turrets placed out in the open. A smart torb will very often put them behind cover when they're protecting a choke or capture zone, which makes widow useless as a turret counter.
98% of people should not play Widow. Maybe they can headshot a Torb/turret consistently but very little else, making them a liability.
I admit she's much better than Tracer, but if Torb is nearby, you better hope he's not close enough to hit a 150 damage right click or 140 damage head shot. Sombra is a great Bastion counter; I disagree that she's a Torb counter (until EMP is up).
Thanks! Per reply above:

> Makes sense if it's a place that lends itself to long sight lines (Numbani comes to mind). Does that work on a map with lots of angles and corners like Hanamura A, Volskaya B, Anubis B, Nepal Village, etc?


Yeah, he's mentioned briefly in the OP. However, if I'm not already playing Lucio, switching to Zen is tricky. Often Mercy or Lucio players at my Elo will switch off their Healer if they see a second Healer. God knows why, but regardless, Zen can't solo heal.
76* sry, i'm on phone
Yep, you can 
No real point in freezing the turret. Right-click is higher DPS and the turret isn't moving anyways. You can also peek while firing to avoid getting shot.
You can, but it's not worth prioritizing over just walling it off or killing it with icicles.

If you're not going to kill it, wall lasts 4.5s, vs. the 1.5s of M1 freeze, and can be done from a much safer range. If you want to kill it, 4 icicles will take down a level 2 turret from full, and Mei's 250 HP is plenty to let her solo a turret if she has some cover to hide behind while she charges her shots. Wall Torb off so he can't repair it or shoot you for the ~5s you need to take care of it and it's no problem. Alternately, wall the turret off first, kill Torb with easy headshots, then clear out the turret at your leisure.

The main advantages of the M1 freeze are to shut down defensive abilities and stop movement so you (and your team if they're around) can quickly finish someone off with easy headshots. Turrets don't move, don't have defensive abilities, and can't be headshot.

That said, if you're going to ult anyway, it can be helpful to aim it so that the turret is inside the radius if possible.
Orisa is 100% the easiest. You can easily take down a turret from a safe distance and you have a shield. If Torb is on a high point you can use Halt to pull him off the edge. Peeking with Phara works too and gives you more damage, but Orisa is consistent. 
Well, I played her exclusively when I learned her. Yes some maps are better suited than others, but you figure it out. 

Hidden turrets can be a pain, but that's when diva can get right up on it. So I guess you need both. 

As a torb main I always hated zen. Once he finds it, he sends a a lot of damage at it quickly.
On a map like that, bring Junkrat instead. If you can't get far enough away to use Widow effectively, you can get close enough for easy pipe shots from behind cover.
And thanks btw. Just trying to make sure I only have to do this once.
You can just outrange him and peek his turret with full charged shots no matter what map.  If there's a lot of angles and corners and you don't feel like widow can work then go junkrat.
Zen's great against turrets, I'm surprised no one else mentioned him.  If he has a long line of sight on a turret or a bastion he can lob orbs at them while he's safely out of range.  

Well hidden turrets are another thing but as long as you survive your first encounter it's easy enough to fall back, charge up a multi shot while hiding, then peak out and destroy.
He shows up in the OP. However, I try not to switch to Zen unless I'm already playing Lucio, or unless I know the Healer(s) are in voice. Zen can't Solo heal to save his life and too many Mercy players at my Elo switch off when they see a second Healer.
Isn't that the worst.  Whenever I think the map or the situation is right for playing Zen I always try and let the team know I can't solo heal.  Sometimes it works...
True.

Hit a PLATeau
Hello everyone!  I am a plat/diamond player who feels like he hasn't gotten better in a long time.  I'm feeling tilted all the time because I feel like I just get worse and worse.  Last season I decided to make an alt, and the alt was placed higher than my main.  This season I went 6-4 on my alt in placements and was ranked 3061 (after only doing placements last season and ranking 2860)!  This is my first time in diamond and I have not touched the account since (lol).  On my main I went 9-1 in placements, doing whatever I had to for the team to win, and after ending last season right at 2800, I started season 6 at 2870.  I see so many people making huge gains after going even in placements, and now friends who I was better than a week ago are all now higher than me.  I love the game, and really want to get better at it.  I am a wrist aimer, and I do not know how to break the habit.  I just bought a bigger mousepad, but I do not know how to break my habits and become better at aiming.  I feel one thing holding me back is my inconsistent aim, as I go from amazing one day to horrible the next.  Is there any way to break my bad aiming habits and get out of my funk?

Edit: Sorry if there is poor grammar spelling is not my strong suitI was stuck in Plat, just like you. What got me out wasn't better communication, or some special aim training. It was getting good at the fundamentals. After I reached out to a private coach, I realized just how shit my positioning was, and how little I actually understood about the game. My point is that sometimes it takes a second opinion to realize what you're doing wrong. Perhaps a friend, or a VOD review.
Plenty of people wristaim even at higher levels. Of course certain characters might be easier to play with a lower sens like Widow,but for others it's more preferential. If you're comfortable with a higher sens leave it like that. Instead work on improving your mechanics and reviewing vods of your own gameplay and pros. 
Any suggestions on coaches?  I don't know any coaches or a good way to record my gameplay, if you could give me some info or suggestions I'd much appreciate it.
I have been practicing a lot and I just can't get better with what I'm doing.  I've been taking breaks, making sure I everything I do is as consistent as I can but I just don't see any improvement with what I am currently doing.
I'm going to message you, because I don't want to be banned for advertising.
Hey, mind giving me some suggestions on coaches as well? Thanks :)
Sure. Mind if we use Discord? I just hate the reddit messaging system. MSG'd with Discord name.

Why is it that I earn less SR and lose more SR compared to my friend?
We only play games together so we win and lose the exact same amount but I will game around 19 for a win and he will gain 25 and I will lose 25 and he will lose 17. Why is this happening?Your friend is just performing better. Gains and losses are performance based. 
You gain SR based on your compared stats to people at your rank, do you play support?
It's based on individual performance in comparison to other people who play that hero at your rank. You say that you will play whatever meaning that it's more likely that you're only adequate with a hero whereas your friend has mastered a hero and is playing above averagely. 
Because the system is bad and isn't based on only wins and losses.
I play anyone really but usually support or tank
See that's the thing tho we both flex a lot and neither of us use one play exclusively but he is a better player than me so I guess it is just that
My recommendation would be to pick a hero to primarily play and then try to do really well on that one so you gain more SR
Ok thanks! I didn't really know about that stuff

Learning Better Team strats? [NA PC]
I've found plenty of great resources for improving as an individual but curious how folks work at getting better as a team. 

Have a somewhat consistent 4-6 stack most of the time, and feel like there's an opportunity to improve teamwork and general gamesense as a consistent group.  We're all in gold/low plat if that helps. 

What's the best way to improve teamwork and beat the other 6 stack we see?  Honestly if you have a six-stack you have an opportunity most can only dream of.  You can use comps that require more than two seconds' thought to understand.  You can throw stuff at the enemy team that they won't have seen before.

So, I'd spend some time theorycrafting some off-meta comps.  Then write up a short bit on each one, and email them to your friends.  Spend 5-10 minutes going over them over voice chat before your next session.

Here are some examples off the top of my head:

- *Divide and conquer*: Symmetra, Pharah, McCree, Reaper, Doomfist, S:76.  The way to play this comp is to divide the map into levels of danger---Very Dangerous, and Not So Dangerous.  The idea is that Pharah and Sym can break the enemy up with rockets/orbs, and the other four can spread out and harass/take 1v1s.  Getting a shield gen up makes them even stronger.  If you have to defend a point at all costs like on 2cp, consider switching Pharah or Sym out for Winston or Rein, both of whom can break up formations, but are hardier.  

- *Support has arrived*:  This is similar to the above in that it seeks to force 1v1s and then win them.  Best used on a large map.  Basically you abuse Mercy's mobility and Widow's range to instantly turn 1v1's into 3v1s.  Widow serves more of a support role in this comp, as she waits for someone to engage her allies.  Other members of this team should be fairly tanky and either mobile or ranged.  Winston is almost an autopick; D.Va, Orisa, Doomfist, Reaper, Torb, and Rein can all work as well.  This style does require the team to keep Widow from being harassed, so keep that in mind.  This also struggles vs shields, so consider switching Widow out for Bastion if that's a problem.  It's also vulnerable to the entire enemy team bumrushing widow; if the enemy team is in wrecking-ball mode, consider Junkrat, Zarya, Pharah, or Symmetra.

- *Hacks, tanks, and explosions*: Triple-tank with a twist:  Sombra, Ana, Junkrat, Zarya, and two tanks of your choice---Winston or D.Va recommended.  This is a very "rumble"-oriented line-up, as Zarya, Junkrat, Sombra, and the other tanks are all suited for chaotic combat.  You're not trying to outheal the enemy so much as throw a bunch of hard-to-deal-with threats (Junkrat grenades PLUS a Zarya bubbled Winston PLUS an Ana-healed Rein) at them at once, while staying alive.  The key here is the mobile portion (Sombra and probably 1-2 of the tanks) being very aware of how safe the immobile portion (Junk, Ana, Zarya) are.

- *A-mei-zing*: Mei is a very unique character, particularly for her ability to disable enemies regardless of their health pools.  Can we abuse this by using Mei to hold back tanks/split deathballs while preying on squishy characters?  Consider Doomfist, Hanzo, Genji, Rein, Hog, Widow, Junkrat, and McCree.

- *Talon*: The idea here is to have six different threats, all formidable on their own.  Sombra and Torbjorn are the essential parts; healthpacks are a big advantage, and armor packs ensure that your teammates will live long enough to use the healthpacks.  Other members might include Reaper, Junkrat, 76, Hog, Rein, Winston, Mei, Doomfist, Widow, Genji, McCree, Symmetra, and Pharah.  The deceptive thing about this comp is that it looks like it has no support, but Sombra and Torb are playing that role at a distance, while being legitimate threats on their own.

All of those are fun comps and can work, or not work; here are the things that are constant:

 - have a balance between immobile characters and mobile characters.  Generally you'll get more power out of the former, but they're vulnerable to being flanked, and can't really chase foes down.
 - pair healing with tankiness.  This doesn't necessarily mean "healers and tanks"; the Sombra/Torb combo in particular is a good example of a different way to approach it.
 - have a plan for deathballs.  There are basically three ways to deal with them:  have a stronger ball of your own, flank them from multiple directions, or break them apart with AoE.
Love this, pretty awesome way of thinking!  We aren't all real life friends but we do end up 4-6 stacked pretty often, just met somehow along the way.  Our challenge is more around adapting strats to how other teams are approaching, and half the time it feels like we lean more on individual skill over creative group strategy to win.  I'm going to share and think on these more. 
In the end all you really *can* do is rely on individual skill, but one individual skill that I feel is criminally under-addressed by the community is on-the-fly composition analysis. In a game where every member of a six-man team can switch to 1 of 19 heroes every time they die, there is a *lot* of data to comprehend,  A team that kept mutating, *and* playing coherently, would be playing OW in a style that, frankly, I think was intended all along.

To start with, though, you might want to just read the last three points and think about them yourself, then see if you agree with them after playing some games with them in mind.  Once you have some principles that you're sure about, you can share them confidently.

Won my first 18 matches with Orisa/Zen in Diamond duoqueue. Undervalued combo?
Friend and I went in, me playing Orisa, him on Zenyatta.  He discords target, i pull up with Orisa, and we both shoot the guy on the way down.  They melt very quickly.

Had a game today on Kings row where we halted up and killed Junkrat and Mercy (first 10 seconds), both dead before they hit the ground.  We haven't even had close games, all stomps.  Try it out and report back, if you're confident enough in both characters and can work together.Orisa is super strong right now imo. She pairs well with heroes that can sit behind her shield and spam out attacks and abilities from safety. Zen is definitely one that benefits because he's squishy and likes to be at a distance. Keep spamming it, its strong lol
Nobody used dive against you? DVa matrix to eat spam, Winston tracer to get behind shield and pounce Zenyatta? 

I'm only in gold so maybe it's just a skill/positioning thing I just haven't seen work properly. (Zen main, and Orissa just isn't used much so far in my games
Orisa is popping up more and more as the shield tank of choice maybe because of the recent buff and people wanting to try her out. 
The presence of Doomfist and junkrat are helping to push players away from the dps portion of dive.  And as tracer/ genji get less play time the dive tanks loose some of their punch. 

Please play Zenyatta
We should all play Zenyatta more. I know his weapon is not the easiest to aim, but if you get comfortable with leading his projectiles you'll have tons of fun with him. He's got amazing burst potential too. 

Are you worried about solo-healing? Don't do that to yourself. If your team isn't comfortable with Zen as solo-healer, they need to supply a second healer. You're not obligated to play Mercy just so more people can play their favorite DPS. That's not a healthy dynamic and we Supports need to stop enabling it. 

Zenyatta wins more matches than any other healer. Per Overbuff he is typically at 53%. Mercy and Lucio are at 51%. Ana is at 46%. Zenyatta is the under-played healer.


Do you think he's not a good partner for Lucio? Lucio is the easiest healer to partner with. All you need to do is keep Lucio alive. If Lucio needs healing, you put the orb on him. If your tanks are getting melted so fast that these two can't keep up then you have bigger problems. Lucio is also great at keeping Zen alive, and having both defensive ults is the best. Zen and Lucio are best healing bros.

Zen and Mercy? They can be a terror on the battlefield. Try asking her for a damage boost. Now you can apply orb of discord and 3-shot any squishy hero at any range. With body shots. Wow. 

Do you think he doesn't work with Ana? But why? What other support pairing has the supreme pick potential of Ana plus Zen? The only thing that might be better than being damage boosted by Mercy is using your discord orb and shooting at targets together with Ana. Talk about anti-air capabilities.



Are you a DPS player who is willing to sacrifice a tiny bit of your damage in exchange for a boost to the team's winning percentage? Please, by all means. I think that you could even get away with triple healer lineups at most rankings, as long as the third healer is Zenyatta.


Zenyatta is great. Play more Zenyatta.Nice try, Sombra...
Please protect Zenyatta. He has a giant lightbulb for a head and no escape kit. If you protect your Zenyattas they'll stay Zenyattas and orb things and shoot at more things and be happy melting everyone's faces from across the map with a weapon that has no damage falloff.
It's true, Zen can carry games the most out of all healing supports.

Everything he can do can easily win a teamfight, e.g. proper discords on targets, one clip picks from his right click, his tranquility nullifying enemy ultimates and just his raw damage potential. His healing is only a secondary benefit that is very useful for high mobility dive heroes.

He has a high skill ceiling though which makes him a lot of fun to play but very hard to master.
I switched my main to Zenyatta and went from platinum to masters in about a season and a half.  

Quick shameless /r/zenyattamains plug
Please don't play more Zenyatta. Sincerely, Zenyatta mains everywhere who don't want their one-trick taken.

In all seriousness, right now there is an AMAZING testing ground for Zenyatta: team deathmatch. Zen can solo heal TDM and you can practice you aim and calling out your discord targets. I have been maining Zen in TDM and you learn so much about positioning, communication, RMB self-defense, and ult usage/counters that I think everyone should try it, even if they have no interest in playing Zen in competitive.
I am a dps main, but always willing to flex and have found that I can flex, while playing dps simply by picking Zen for heals or Zarya for tank.

Those 2 can frag out like crazy and there are few things more satisfying in this game than deleting another hero with a well placed orb volley.
Also dinking flanking Tracers is so much fun.
Yeah dear god please stop telling people to play him. Dude is my main and I'm practically a one trick with him. 

Hate when people insta lock him. 

But yes his discord is crazy powerful, heal is underrated and makes flankers/tanks really tough to kill. 

He has range and high dmg with M1, and one shot potential with M2. 

Trans has to be in top 5-6 best ults in the game. 

Even if can't aim, orbs alone make him valuable to team. No cooldowns means he can shift the balance of a 1v1 fight instantly. 
Zen is like high tier in DM, I win matches a lot. People forget how ridiculous his burst damage is. He can win almost anything assuming he positions properly and hits shot. Thats why I love him, and thats why he's my go to healer in a real game. He's basically a DPS healer carry.


People also underestimate the amount of healing he can output.
Zen is a total beast. I love him because you can properly wreck any enemy with his ~~balls~~ nuts. 
Just yesterday I angered a monkey when he died in megamonkey form, he was like "wtf where did all that damage come from???" - nuts and discord, man, nuts and discord.

Only sombra can be a major pain in the ass if she picks on you and emps 3 times/minute. The only enemy hero that makes me switch off zen sometimes.


I'd love to play more Zen, but every one of the matches I pick him is followed by the inevitable "can you play Mercy?". He's the healer I have the highest winrate on...
This advertisement paid for by the Play Zenyatta Guild.
As a Sombra main I can only support this suggestion.
My zen win percent for this season and last season is over 80%, but I don't get to play him nearly as much as I'd like due to having to constantly solo heal. In gold, people will just let themselves die due to lack of healing rather than switch to a second healer so it's pretty much Mercy or bust until I get better with Ana. Which is a shame because zen and Lucio are my favorite heroes, but neither are really capable of main/solo healing.
Yeah that's exactly what's happened with my placements and going forward. I'm a DPS main who can also flex a bit and play Ana but too many situations where Ana either wasn't a good pick or already picked and I had to play Zen. 

Zen is basically a DPS hero. The only difference is that he can do some passive healing (himself and others) and when he presses Q, you save people not kill them. Otherwise he's all DPS. 
he is just the 5th or 6th most played hero, chill
I actually ended up with Zen as my most played last season and he is currently most played for this season. Zenyatta is one of my favorite heroes both in game and lore wise. I love using discord orbs and just digging into the enemies when they feel like lining up in my direct line of fire. My one complaint would be Zen's speed, which can leave him vulnerable to faster and high damage enemies. But nonetheless, Zen is great and we should all give him a little more time.
Zen + Lucio is great, you have the single-target and AoE healing in one package. They can keep a team topped off through active firefights if your DPS is hitting their targets. And if they're not, no worries, Zen makes their job easier anyways with Discord and powerful supporting fire. Heck, a good Zen can replace a DPS on a team, he really is that strong.
shhhh dont tell them

http://imgur.com/a/xKMzE
Shhhhh, I don’t need people knowing about one of my favorite characters. Shut the fuck up and take this knowledge back to where it came.


\s just in case
Oh maaaan, why did you tell them?..
I just got golden balls for my favorite monk and couldn't be happier. Coming around a corner with all five orbs charged and unloading into the face of an unsuspecting cowboy or banjo is incredibly satisfying since you just melt them. 

Bastion and torb are child's play once you figure out where they are set up an hit discord, and all your diving heros will love your harmony orb sustain while their targets melt 30% faster. 

Shutting down all the ulting enemy dps or making your team unkillable as you cap a point is a beautiful thing as well. 

Melt squishes, kill turrets, block ults and give Zenny from the block some love. 
Zen is my favorite dps character
I play him when I can't play mercy, he's a good 2nd heal and it's fun to kill things. I just really hate how gimped he is with speed.
I solo healed a triple tank team as Zen in a ~1930 SR game on defense. It was so stressful I wouldn't recommend it to anyone. Luckily the other team was really bad and it was a free win 
Please do! As a tracer main I always love more breakfast.
Also, orb of harmony is really good to heal your flankers for a short time before they go out of your line of sight because then you don't have to go in with them into possible danger as if you were playing Mercy or Lucio. I guess Ana can do the same thing but Ana requires aim lul.
"Zen and Lucio are best healing bros."

Truth
Given that I'm a Sombra main, my personal rule with playing Zenyatta is "if they have a Sombra, I'll switch", because I don't want to deal with the EMP.
All true, at least if you're not on a Defense against an Dive comp that focus you first..

But is super fun to keep saying "Common guys, I'm still gold kills and damage, you have to keep it up with me"
He's my secondary (Sombra main) and I love him <3
As a zen main I am taking this advice. No more giving way to lucio. No more changing to mercy. Peace be upon you!
Pro Zenyatta Tip: Almost always charge shot, and then discord your target after release. They're much easier to aim, do more burst damage, and if headshot can delete a squishy. 
Zen is my most played and favourite hero. He's incredible in the right hands. Given the choice I pick him but if we have no healers i'll play Ana and if we have 2 supports i'll play Zarya.
Zen main here! 4x as much on him as any other character, and i can confirm, devastating and a complete blast! The fact that you have to pay attention to so many more things than many of the other characters causes me to get "into" zen more than any other hero
Back when I played Overwatch, I loved playing Zen but not when they have flankers.  If the enemy team had Tracer or Genji, playing Zen was a nightmare.  He has no mobility and just gets decimated unless you're team is willing to watch your back (which isn't gonna happen lol)...
Been working on my Zen a lot for the past months. My average healing with him is 5-6k, my damage is 5k with 20 eliminations at my highest. No matter how hard I try to focus on damage, I always end up with slightly more heals at the end of the game and my damage and heals are usually pretty close. The hardest part about playing Zen is staying alive. I die more with him than any other Hero. Got tips on surviving?
Dude,don't give away our secrets like that...Zen is my go-to healer for 4 DPS comps(my fav is Ana,but i usually play her when we have 2+ tanks).I pick him because trying to hit Genji and Tracer with Ana's rifle is usually tough,plus he is extremely good for picking up the slack as a pseudo-DPS when our aforementioned Genji and Tracer instalocks turn out not to be GM/Top 500 material.Not to mention that any Winston trying to dive onto me is gonna get a nice discord orb,and then a pocketful of extra orbs straight through his thick skull.
I mained Zenyatta in S4 with a 70% win rate, and was able to finally climb from diamond to masters. Once I got good with him it became apparent how much of a solo carry he is

 * Charged right clicks is a great way to grab picks, essential for pushing through tough defenses

 * Your team will have a consistent source of single target healing

 * You will be doing comparable damage to your DPS, while adding 30% DPS to your teams focus targets. It's essentially like running three DPS, your team will melt targets and you're able to make up for a sub-par damage player

 * You have one of the best defensive outs in the game, and unless their Ana has good biotic grenades you will save your team from wipes and win fights multiple times

Zenyatta fulfills so many necessities for your team, and if you're good on him you know a good amount of your bases will be covered.
Discords are kind of nice 
Being a Zenyatta main, I think one unaddressed issue is his cluttered hud.

Personally I have alot of issues maintaining my accuracy with him due to the noisy hud and bright colors.

If they provided us with some opacity options for the hud elements including the targeting system for Zenny, that would improve his play across the board. 

I would like to limit the intrusion the targeting system creates. 
I constantly underestimate Zen as Winston. Every single time I jump him for an easy pick (because he's a healer, and healers are best at dying, right?) and every time I have to give up and bail out to save myself from an embarrassing demise.
When I play heal, if I am forced to play heal cuz 5 people lock dps I usually go ana or zenyatta depending on comp and map. And gotta say all my zenyatta games are those in which I don't really pick zen cuz of some specific reason. I don't even know what to say when people ask me why I play him as my 4th most played Comp hero. But even then I have put around 26 hours on zen this season alone and I have 68% win rate.
 Like I frickin don't know why. 

Honestly I ain't even that good.




I ended season 5 with 70% win rate on him. My absolute favorite hero on my rank (plat). You absolutely destroy anyone out of positioning, and you're one of the best supports to deal with Pharah, which is the most common reason for losing on plat (IMO)
I'm a Zen main in mid plat and instalock him every game. I often have to change if I'm the only support (still had 32 hours on him last season), but he's such a game changer when with a team that watches my back and shoots the discorded target I call out. 
I believe that the reason Zenyatta's win percent is higher because he has less people  playing him, and more of those people are really good with him. I actually think that the 51% with mercy and lucio is a little more impressive for the reason that so many people play them. Other than that, I agree with what you said.
I'm a big fan of Zenyatta, but...

> Zenyatta wins more matches than any other healer. Per Overbuff he is typically at 53%. Mercy and Lucio are at 51%. Ana is at 46%. Zenyatta is the under-played healer.

A positive winrate on Overbuff is usually bad. It probably means Zen players in season 5 were getting less SR per game than other heroes and were being artificially kept below their real skill level. No idea if that's still true though. Blizzard fucks around with the performance metrics behind the scenes all the time, so who knows which heroes have broken SR now.

I also think he should be played more. And as he's so much in the back line,  he sees how his team moves,  when they over extend and you can't heal them,  when the enemy over extends to discord them.. Think it's gives an insane new perspective on positioning as other heroes. 
I would main zenyatta forever if his left and right clicks healed allies.
I love playing zen and find his weapon to be the easiest for me to aim with. That said, I play at a level where everyone will cheerfully ignore the sombra reaper genji tracer murdering me because it's all about what's directly in their field of view.
Please no. I lock zen every game and hate when someone tries to steal him from me
I hear stuff about aiming with Zenyatta all the time, but his projectile box is like the size of a barn. I find him one of the easiest to aim with. 
I disagree. Let me play Zen
Zen is my boo... My flair speaks the truth.

I love Zen. But those stats I think are somewhat skewed by him often being a second healer, and 2 support comps typically being superior.

That said, in lower tier, he can totally solo heal. Enemy accuracy is less bursty, so you can more effectively heal... Meanwhile discord turns even needing DPS into killing machines as long as they can prioritize weekend targets and the Zen can pick good focus targets (call-out helps tons).

Even without lethal DMG, discord can often zone a good enemy player out of Los for 3s, at literally zero CD (limit 1active of course) which is huge DMG mitigation.

His right click can poke counter snipe, and good to ensure a couple solid hits on mobile bouncy flank types.

Zen is by and far my favorite support, and the fact he synergizes with DPS heavy comps makes him a solid solo support in lower tier if you can stay alive
Zen is fun but it's near impossible to solo heal with him unless your team just steamrolls.  I initially picked him up because I sucked ass with all the other healers and healers were always lacking in comp.  He's hella dope
I'm not a big fan of playing him, but as a Pharah main i want to say that a good Zen will cause you a lot of trouble. Pair him with one of your counters and you better switch right away.
As a DPS main in season 5 with an average of about 54% winrate, I can confirm that Zen is amazing. This season he is my main and I've got a 70% winrate over 4 hours with him and have climbed to my career high in mid gold
I love Zenyatta, he's one of my favorite heroes to play. But most people who don't like playing him (like my friend), hate how squishy he is. Good Tracers just one clip him all the time. And he just gets deleted against dive comps. For me I love 1v1-ing the enemy flankers, and keep changing my position to confuse the enemy team. That's just me, other people think it's too stressful not having Something like Ana nade or the other healers mobility. 
I tried... I died a lot to flankers.

Maybe try again today
No please don't I won't be able to keep insta-locking him
I used to main him. Then I took a doomfist to the knee.

Now I main junkrat.
Thanks for writing this. I originally was a dps main but switched to Zen so I could help with damage from a support slot. Now I'm a Sup main and know the whole bunch, but Zen will always be my favorite!
I love to play Zen. I have soon lvl. 120 in the game so yeah. Not a pro
I've mained Zenyatta since S2 although mostly in QP/Arcade and agree totally. 

The only issues I have are 1. People thinking he can solo heal and just spam "I need healing" even though they have an orb on them, or a teammate is lower than them. 2. DPS not hitting the discorded target. Voice helps but I don't use it that often and to be honest people should know who to hit so I just prioritise those.

The amount of people who don't seem to know how Zen plays is scary. Enemies discorded are marked and Zen can see them, even behind walls. If you're waiting for an orb to drop off, don't instantly go back out to fire at Zen, as that Zen knows you're doing it and has a charged up alt fire ready for you to walk into. 
zenyatta is love , zenyatta is life
What should be a decent accuracy rating on Zen? Most of my time on him is from when I first started playing, so on Overbuff, my accuracy was 22%. Last night, I was between 27-39%.
I'm a Zen main. About 15 matches this season, including placements. 78% win rate. Silver/gold eliminations are not uncommon. I can solo heal good tanks and DPS.

I've only had one team that bitched at both healers (Zen and Luc) for not playing primary healers, but they were bad players that would 1v3.

At first I was reluctant to do this, but I highly recommend keeping your mic always-on (with headphones and no background noise, please) and calling out Discord Orb targets. "Discord Mercy", "Discord Pharah", "Discord Diva", etc. You go from a formidable support hero to a goddamn raid leader.
I love Zen, he's the highest damage Sup by far and a great asset at countering pharah or melting tanks

That said, i don't think playing Lucio+Zen is a good idea, both of them are passive heals and your team will lack burst healing without an Ana or Mercy to cover it.
if Zen did nothing but discord he'd still be awesome
I quit playing Zenyatta after one too many complaints about not calling out my Discord Orbs.  It's just way too much talking during the match for me to be comfortable with.  I'd rather leave him open for somebody more chatty than myself.
Or I can play Ana every game as I have done since her release!
Zen/Lucio is not the easiest healer pair. That's because of the dual defensive ultimate problem. At no point do you want to pop both Transcendence and Sound Barrier at the same time, and it's not difficult to do. They make a great pair, but you've got to be very careful with overlapping their ults.
>If your tanks are getting melted so fast that these two can't keep up then you have bigger problems.

Yes. Your "bigger problem" is that you don't have enough healing.
no he's even less fun than mercy

Until Winston fucks off
I agree with what you said except please don't go into a game as zen solo heals and be stubborn

Idk about you but I don't like losing because someone won't pick second healer if I'm playing solo heal zen I swap off and go mercy . 

Your team doesn't owe you anything and if they're being stubborn  you might as well increase your chances of winning and go mercy. 
For real though. She's literally the only hero that gives me trouble as Zen. Her ability to just show up behind while invisible and spray me full of led combined with her small hit box makes it almost impossible to play against her. If there's a really good Sombra on the red team I usually switch off and go Lucio. 
You're just a glitch in the system.
I just played a Eichen defense game murdering a poor Zen soul.  
He died 6 times by my hand: spawncamped 3 times, picked first after EMP 2 times. He never had a chance to put an orb on someone, he never used transcedence, he was constantly dead when his team was ready to push. He never switched off. Full hold.  
Zenyatta is Great. Play more Zenyatta ;)
I don't play Zen much and I don't see many Sombras ever, but I got to experience this for the first time yesterday. Luckily, she wasn't very good and I still had an Orisa barrier to retreat to a couple times.
His escape kit is DPS.
As a sym main, I'm zens bad ass bitch enforcer who teaches the enemy to not mess with the Zen!

Beam + discord = scary. 
Zenyatta protects himself.  Just kill everything that tries to kill you
I can seriously fuck up Widow players with Zen sometimes. Dare I say it, he does a surprising amount of damage.
[deleted]
When playing DPS I've always found his triangular shape to be a lot easier to hit than Mercy and Lucio.
When I play zen one of two things happen. 1. I get dived on and I am not good enough to defend myself. 2. I get 4 golds and they slowly roll us.

I guess #2 is better than them quickly rolling us.
> It's true, Zen can carry games the most out of all healing supports.

I have to disagree, Lucio can carry pretty har...

> healing supports

Oh...
"Tracer mains hate him! Find out how one Overwatch player went from Platinum to Masters with one easy trick! His Zeroes and Ones will shock you!"
started playing zen for DM to see how well that would work.. am now claiming zen main and figuring out how to work him into team games. lol
You ask people not to pick him then give away the deadliest secret in TDM!
I went 7-1 in team deathmatch playing Zen with a Pharah and Hanzo duo and whoever we got matched with each game, and I was getting 5 golds a lot of the time.
>Even if can't aim, orbs alone make him valuable to team

Partly because they make people have 30% less health, but mainly because putting a discord on someone and then saying where it is helps coordinate the team. 
I can't aim on a lot of characters, but for some reason I wreck on Zen. Not sure what it is. But yes, he is fun as hell. 
What do you bind Discord to
I agree. SSSSHHHHHHHHH
> He can win almost anything assuming he positions properly and hits shot. 

This describes 90% of the roster.
Keeping discord on monkey while he is using primal is so nutty, pun intended.  Basically takes off 300 health for free
just tell them no.  EZ
Ignore that. [You know your best,](https://img.ifcdn.com/images/f5d2adf314b5a40369fcb08be692cf3529836e76d2740bbac5f7691ec213e498_1.jpg) they're stuck in some ideal of the perfect composition. They're saying they'd prefer you play a hero you're not familiar with. Because they make no sense.
Just explain you're more comfortable with Zen. Most people will understand
> "can you play Mercy?"

Ignore them. Lower ranks seem to want the Mercy crutch to compensate for their reckless playstyle. Higher ranks shouldn't be judging any support choices, except Sym.
That's what I mean though... Let's say two fuckos want to play Shimada brothers and a third player is sensible enough to understand that the team still needs a hitscan DPS who can put out consistent damage. He picks Soldier76 and the other two pick Rein and Zarya.

That's one of the classic "i guess I have to play Mercy" dilemmas, right? I say play Zen anyways. If you pick Ana or Mercy then you can just about guarantee that youll be solo-healing the whole game. I say pick Zen and concentrate on doing your job. If someone requests that you switch to Mercy I'd say "no".
> I don't get to play him nearly as much as I'd like due to having to constantly solo heal

Stop giving in to crappy comps.
^(Hi, I'm a bot for linking direct images of albums with only 1 image)

https://i.imgur.com/DcPcUGc.png

^^[Source](https://github.com/AUTplayed/imguralbumbot) ^^| ^^[Why?](https://github.com/AUTplayed/imguralbumbot/blob/master/README.md) ^^| ^^[Creator](https://np.reddit.com/user/AUTplayed/) ^^| ^^[ignoreme](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=imguralbumbot&subject=ignoreme&message=ignoreme) ^^| ^^[deletthis](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=imguralbumbot&subject=delet%20this&message=delet%20this%20dmmwx99) 
Masteroverwatch is a better gauge, it gives stats/min instead of per game. I bet you're still high % there tho
I'm right on your tail! Got you beat in On Fire % tho ;) [https://i.imgur.com/hpN8VSb.jpg](https://i.imgur.com/hpN8VSb.jpg)
Golden nuts are the best gold weapon in the entire game, ez
> Bastion and torb are child's play once you figure out where they are set up an hit discord, and all your diving heros will love your harmony orb sustain while their targets melt 30% faster. 

most of the time when I see a Bastion/Torb in comp, they tend to turtle like crazy and be an unstoppable wall you can't even get to or flank, let alone discord.
Dink-dink! You're dead.
I'm not 100% on this but a while back someone said that the orb *does* have travel time. And though its very short, the orb doesn't make it in time before your right clicks connect. 
Find your less mobile DPS. Stand near them. 
how do you feel about right click for discord and middle click for charged blasts?
That's right, get right up in there with him in that bubble and start dinkin'
I play solo console, so there is almost never any communication.  That being said, I think that makes me a bit more aware.  I love when my team has a Zenyatta, I just watch for the discord orb to pop up on someone and BLAMMO!  I'm a D. Va main, so I usually have to shoot someone about 500 times before they die...working with Zen healing and discarding makes me feel like a demigod.
Bullshit. Orb plus Lucio aura is more than enough to sustain a tank. If you are taking so much damage that both of them together can't keep you up, then you are either out of position or your DPS isn't keeping up.
you can shit on winston as zenyatta though
I routinely make Winstons my bitch.
Dude,discord him and put a couple of orbs through his thick skull.After you do this 2-3 times,i guarantee he won't trouble you for the rest of the match.You only need to be afraid of Sombra
Not to mention that her ult takes away 75% of your hitpoints. Against other characters it's dangerous, but against Zenyatta it's outright deadly. Everyone knows that a hacked Tracer is an easy kill, but now imagine that Tracer with only one third of the health and a hitbox the size and shape of a packing crate.
You don't have issues with Tracer or Reaper?
I play a lot of them and I do get a lot of trouble with those two characters. Now I have a chance to kill either one with a well-placed spread and a well-timed Orb. But getting Tracer takes a little luck and getting Reaper takes a lot of nerve.
Lower elo has problems with Winston, you know.

Help me team :(
Quick tip overall: 

Always keep your orbs charging. If you're not actively engaging someone, charge up.

You can always melee to cancel, but the idea is that if you're always charging and suddenly confronted by a tracer, you can literally walk straight up to them and fire. It only takes three orbs to destroy a tracer, about the same for Sombra. Just walk around with your orbs charged - Whether for you, or to assist a DPS or tank to kill someone, charging your orbs if you're not directly in combat or busy slinging harmony and discord, is always a good opportunity
Not sure if someone has said it to you (not trying to be mean) but what about reaper when he gets close
If you allow Sombra to do this to you as Zenyatta, then you're shitty at positioning. He should be near an ally at all times.
did you mean to do that?
My new favorite thing to do against Sombra (I'm actually a Lucio main) is to play outside of EMP range and hold onto my Sound Barrier.

It sets up a fun game of chicken for us both to play. It reminds me of earth-shatter mind-games. I like it because I don't ever feel powerless. Even if you get me, at least I default to healing song and I can still wall-ride and shoot back. But what you do to poor Zen is cruel.
Thats why you always charge your right-click as zen
This is a poor Zenyatta who team didn't give a shit about.
Sounds like a dumb zen. After the second time i would tell my team, and then wait to leave the spawn with a partner, and yanno, not just look only ahead. I mean, good sombras can be brutal, but constantly getting spawn killed means you were dumb enough to keep running out alone haha
From my experience, the threshold between the average Sombras and the good ones that can kill me is big.
I love winning duels against McCrees as Zen.
nothing more satisfying that outsniping a widow with some charged up balls
*headshots for 110 damage
It's rare (for me at least), but when you're charging up your right-click and suddenly a wild Tracer appears behind you ready to farm herself a kill and you just spin around and volley her right in the face... so good.
This plus good positioning.
Aww yea, I love you all day. Turrets + freeze beam, turrets + ice wall, Mercy boost plus Sym M1, discord+harmony+microwave, etc etc. Syms get shit on a lot but good ones make fantastic partners for like, half the roster easy.
Plus having a kill room you can duck back into is a huge Lifesaver especially when it has not only turrets but a live Symetra in it!
As a Zen, I hate when players pick Sym, because "they only need 2 sups"...
the satisfying feeling of hiding behind a corner, charging up a volley and throwing it in her face 😋
I lost track of all the special terms when we needed short paragraphs to describe beings that think in ones and zeroes identifying as non-binary 
And everyone ignores that pharah you keep discording..
It is easy to figure him out to work on your team:

1. Pick him
2. Kill enemies
3. ???
4. Profit!
The discord orb is like a laser pointer and your teammates are cats.
> Even if can't aim, orbs alone make him valuable to team

Don't forget that the balls are projectiles, they're forgiving and have an bigger hit box than the McCree shots for example
Aren't landing those far shots super satisfying?!
Left click. Then charged I switched to mouse wheel button (press not scroll) 
If you have a mouse with thumb buttons I suggest binding discord to those. The default E is cumbersome when you're trying to strafe right while spamming discord. 
I have done discord on right click aswell but I realised it's not comfortable. I was using the burst way way less then I should have been. And when you use it more you gotta use a melee attack to cancel the animation otherwise you give away your position in most cases so I swapped back. When the team is far it's charged shot spam to get picks, when I get close its discord spam to help out where I can while doing single shots. 
No, it describes other DPS. And Zen is a support, which is the point.
Did this earlier today when someone asked me to switch to Mercy. Nope I suck at her sorry bruh. 
Gold isn't a place of logic. Its easier to just play Mercy than risk someone throwing because I won't do what they want.
Gold/Plat has yet to work like that for me. In the event people don't tilt because they didn't get their ideal comp, they for sure won't play in a way that accounts for Zen solo heals.
No junkrat? Completely unrealistic lol just playing with ya. I totally understand your point, and I should definitely try to do that more often; I tend to have no backbone when it comes to what I want to pick and just go with whatever fits the team comp regardless of if it's my favorite or best hero. I'm just worried it might end up costing me some games I'd otherwise win if I did roll over and play Mercy. But I'll give it a shot - even us healers need to be a lil selfish sometimes and play what we want.
You can still win solo healing as Zen too, you just have to be more aware of who to prioritise and when. 
good bot
i dont really care about the stats, just about the winrate
Counting the days to the Christmas event so I can get that skin 
That's right, the orb will never make it before the right click shots.
Sounds simple, but this might be my problem. I use Zen as long-range and try not to stand too close to anyone unless I'm about to Ult. I try to utilize the 3 second discord/harmony orb uptime by ducking behind cover and popping back out before I lose line of sight on my orb. I'll try standing closer to the team, see if that helps me live longer. Thanks, man.
I used right click for discord for a while, but I recently went back to keeping discord on a side mouse button. They're both good options, I'm not sure which I like better.
keybinds are personal preference, there are top 500/pro zens that use default binds. 90% sure fnatic custa uses default binds on zen and he's one of the best zen players.
> Orb plus Lucio aura is more than enough to sustain a tank.

Without amping it up, that does 46.25 healing per second. That isn't even enough to outheal Winston's Tesla Cannon, and it would take you over 10 seconds to fully heal a wounded tank.

With Lucio amping, you can achieve around 70 healing per second for 3 seconds, which at the most is going to heal 210hp of the tank before you're back to slow trickle healing. You then have to wait a full 12 seconds to do that again.

Lucio excels at trickle healing a team and providing a good AoE with his amp it up, but he's utterly terrible at healing tanks. Same deal with Zenyatta.

***

TL;DR 10 seconds to heal a tank to full is not "sustaining a tank".
at full health 1v1 with no uspport no
he's like a shitty junk or pharah with soldier's heal

very unfun

it's a lot less easy to handle winston up close with a bubble than you've said
And she gets her ult very quickly, and it's often reasonable to use it solely/primarily to kill Zen in solo queue where the team fight value of EMP is reduced. Fun times. 
Yeah I always thought that was kinda bs.
......Her EMP takes away shields??? Does her hack do the same thing?
Does that work with the normal hack, too? I keep forgetting to test it because I just usually decide to save the hack and kill him. It's just that he's so easy to melt lol.
Tracers scare easy, and you can keep a better eye on them than Sombra. Reaper just waltzes in so you have time to get with your team. It's the surprise factor of Sombra that is an issue. 
Go and play Tracer for a bit and notice how you react when you take damage. You pull back and either heal or recall.

The same is true for enemy Tracers. Just a little bit of chip damage is enough to put her in one-shot terrritory, making her retreat.
If not directly engaging or healing, walk around charging your shots. If engaged by flanking tracer or reaper, walk towards them to increase target size. They think you're walking into a kill and will walk towards you - Unleash, and then finish off with a melee.
I win 90% of the time in a 1v1 against winston as Zen playing in mid gold. Most winstons at low elo jump high and drop a barrier as soon as they land when going for you. 

The trick is to see him in the air and orb him straight away. Once orbed you charge your alt fire and walk backwards, they will normally follow you out of their barrier which is when you unleash your charged volley. Boom half is health is gone straight away. Proceed to put a few more balls on his face until he runs away or dies.
Yep. Do it all the time my man. Thank you for the advise though. I always try to get better with him and hopefully I can be good enough to not be afraid of Sombra. 
Reaper when he gets close is a problem for every single hero in the game.
Pretty much what captaincupcakez said. Plus it's kinda easy to hear his footsteps. So it's not that hard to see him coming. Sombra on the other hand has no footsteps when she's invisible, which is one of the main problems when trying to defend yourself as Zen. 
Zen works better when he's off in the distance, with a line a sight of his teammates and giving harmony orbs and discording. Sure, you can choose to stay all grouped up with the team, but Zen is too much of a squishy non-mobile hero that it's too risky, IMO. 
That's smart, I've never seen a Lucio break my EMP because it seems he always gets caught in it, but it could really be a lifesaver for his team. Also Lucio seems like the best equipped healer at surviving an 1on1 with Sombra, pretty solid pick

that helps a lot to keep the Sombra honest, but most of the time with invis Sombra can wait to decloack till Zen unloads or cancels the right click.  
Honestly I play quite a bit of Zen too and enjoy it, but if I see a Sombra I'm going to switch really fast.  


While it is true that variance matters, you also get almost a guaranteed death every EMP (no Sombra ever would shoot at anything but Zen after the EMP). During normal play, if your attention is focused on orbing and damaging ahead of you it will be hard to rapidly notice that Sombra that is unloading from behind or above (at least at my low diamond level, by the time they start fighting back they already lost almost half hp).   
I mean, it's not impossible, I don't doubt high level Zens can manage, but for me it would be very unpleasant to be on the receiving end of this duel
Or nailing that tracer that thought you didn't know she was coming with a charged shot.
That reminds me of a game I was playing McCree and ulting while there Zen attacked me from behind. He didn't aim for the head not once and his Mercy payed the price. Remeber! Aim for the head, kids.
Those are some terrible McCrees
My favorite is picking an over confident Widow. 
Definitely.  And we're not gonna talk about the times Widow shoots us in the head while we're trying to be cute.
It's all about discharging the pent up pressure from Zenyatta's balls straight into Widow's face.

Also in the game.
Guessing the right side of the attacking window on Kings Row
hitting two headshots on a discord target is SO good "ding! ding!"
I don't play zen much, but totally. I did that once, and it was like "Whoa. I am pro now."
It was super effective.
The best part is when you smell their fear from that and you never see them again
Zen's the only healer I really enjoy playing, so I'm with you there. So annoying to pick Zen then have someone select Sym after others make their picks. Suddenly you're obligated to swap to Mercy. Fuck that. 
Or when you discord her, shoot her, she tries to take cover, but not long enough, and you kill her when she pops back out. 
Or worse, only you can deal with her because you have the fastest projectiles on the team. 
I think a lot of support players could get a few more wins by actually trying to contribute to a kill instead of sitting back and being passive a lot of the time.
i lold
> your teammates are cats

yes
That sounds awkward, unless you have a very soft scroll wheel.

I have discord and harmony as scrollwheel up and scrollwheel down
I just find the mouse click much faster and more responsive than E or shift. Also separation of abilities seems smoother to me. Left hand is defensive (harmony, movement/positioning) and mouse hand is offensive (M1, alt fire, discord on M2). Just feels natural to discord and M1 with 2 sadly clicks. 

Mouse wheel up/down applies the orbs fastest In my experience, but didn't work as well overall for me personally. 

The charged shots are where the skill really comes in. If Mid charge and you need to adjust orbs, do you release early and reapply? Melee cancel? Not be charging in case of that and M1 instead? Countless times I missed a charged shot and realized if I had put harmony discord on a 1v1 just a second earlier it would have turned the whole team fight. 
I put the volley on mouse wheel press
> Zen solo heals

There's your problem right there. Crappy team comps that expect one person to heal their sorry asses. I've encountered this a few times. 1 healer = 50/50 chance of winning the match, which are good odds in my opinion. I've won plenty as a Zen solo healer with a competent team.

Lastnight I lost a game as a solo. I muted a chatty Attack Hanzo that would breathe weird things into his mic early in the game. Later I find out that he was pissed that I stayed on Zen as the only healer. Hanzo... critical of healers... you can't make this up. Thankfully other teammates replied to him with "Yeah, we lost the game because of Zen, sure..."

Just ignore them.
You get to choose who lives and who dies!
Thank you the\_D\_within for voting on imguralbumbot.  

This bot wants to find the best and worst bots on Reddit. [You can view results here](https://goodbot-badbot.herokuapp.com/).  

 ***  

^^Even ^^if ^^I ^^don't ^^reply ^^to ^^your ^^comment, ^^I'm ^^still ^^listening ^^for ^^votes. ^^Check ^^the ^^webpage ^^to ^^see ^^if ^^your ^^vote ^^registered!
^thanks

^^[Source](https://github.com/AUTplayed/imguralbumbot) ^^| ^^[Why?](https://github.com/AUTplayed/imguralbumbot/blob/master/README.md) ^^| ^^[Creator](https://np.reddit.com/user/AUTplayed/) ^^| ^^[ignoreme](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=imguralbumbot&subject=ignoreme&message=ignoreme) 
Skullyatta first. Every skin has a season (turn turn turn)
Now I'm not on my cell, so I'll give you a more detailed answer. 

Zenyatta biggest weakness is his lack of mobility, which means he is very susceptible to flankers (and snipers, but those are a pain to everyone). And what are the good counters to flankers? 

McCree have a "death zone" at his Flashbang range to any flanker. Junkrat have traps to detect/hold flankers, and an AoE mine to blow them up. Torbjorn turret is a good alarm system against flankers, and Torb himself can feed you armor. Symmetra and Mei are short-range fighters exceptionally good to deal with any flanker that is not Reaper. 

If you stand near them, even if you die to a surprise Tracer clip on the back, they usually make sure that she will not escape alive as well, so you keep the fight 5v5. 
Over that 10 second period, Zen is going to heal 30 x 10 = 300 hp. Lucio is going to heal 7 second of regular heal x 16.25 + 3 seconds of amp it up x 46.8 = 254.15 to everyone on the team (well, a little less to himself). That's 554 health. Mercy would do 600 in that same time-frame. 

In the mean time, Zen is actively damaging (at pretty much the level of a full dps character), and increasing the damage done against, the enemy team—tank can't take damage if the other team is dead or running away because they are discorded and about to die. Lucio, too, is spamming extra damage into the group, healing the other members of trickle damage, and you probably have another tank to take some of the heat off of that main tank who is also getting healed at the same time. Mercy does nothing but heal or increase the damage done by one person.

So long as your team is playing to your comp's strengths, Lucio/Zen is perfectly fine for keeping a tank up. 
Sorry bro, but if your tanks need more healing than this then your tanks are taking too much damage. Just as the Rein shield isn't sized to block the combined output of an entire team, (it's just sturdy enough to protect a DPS while he destroys turrets) the tanks' dynamic health pool (which includes healing output) isn't sized to keep him alive through the end of days. 


I'll try to be fair and say that maybe they wouldn't be taking that much damage if the DPS players were making shots, but ultimately the tank player needs to not be taking 100+ points of damage every second. I've won and lost many games with Zen/Lucio as the pairing and I can assure you that the decisions of the tank is by far the biggest factor in whether we can keep him alive. 
if you have good positioning and a nice fat right click going, yeah you can
Pulse bomb is just as deadly and easy to land on zen. Feels bad to be the zen but killing zen is a priority for those two heroes.
If you want to replace his shields with normal hp, its fine by me! 
No, only EMP takes shields away
Her EMP removes all shields and barriers and applies the "hacked" status to everyone in the radius. Winston and Orisa's barriers break (not sure about Symmetra, but my guess would be yes), Reinhardt's barrier either breaks or he is just forced to lower it because he's hacked, not sure. Zarya's bubbles also break. Note that it also removes the shields from Lucio's ult, which can be a nasty surprise for a team that thinks they have temporarily increased toughness.

Her hack does not break shields, it only prevents the target from using any special abilities or ult while hacked.
Her Hack disables the abilities of the target for 6 seconds I believe? EMP does the same, but everyone in a radius and disables shields.
No, the normal hack doesn't remove shields. Man, imagine how hard Sombra would counter Symmetra, Zenyatta, and Zarya if that was the case.
solution here is to duo queue with a mccree.  His hitscan revolver + discord is straight nasty and his flashbang keeps you safe from genji/tracer/sombra basically for free
Ahh, we're all just Chippin' around huh babe?
Yea I love when Winston's seem to be surprised at how long it takes to kill a full shield Zen - his tesla is weak against Zenyatta. 
The only time I have trouble with Winstons is when I get caught by surprise and end up in the bubble, besides that he is fairly easy.
Thanks for  being cool about that. Do you have any tips for Zen?

I'm still learning. I used to be a Mercy main, but Zen is a lot more fun to play.
As Reaper the only hero I fear up close is Junkrat.
I agree he should have los for most of his team but without assistance he's easily disposed of by Tracer, Genji, Doomfist, Winston, Mei, and Reaper. Basically he's screwed vs close range attackers unless you get lucky with a clutch headshot.
I finally did counter-ult an EMP or two in the past few weeks but prior to that I must have gotten countered by it about a hundred times. I got sick of it. 

Also - a distressing number of my teammates have had no clue that EMP takes away Sound Barrier. 
If you're keeping Lucio out of emp range, he's not helping his team much with the 10m radius.
Top shelf Numbani (1st point) is perfect for this. Its like the time she takes getting around is the perfect amount for Zen to get his orbs ready.
Those Zen's don't scare me.

It's the ones that can get off a discord+dink+kick in like a global and delete me from the game that make me steer clear for the rest of the match.
Sounds like one of my games. I always aim for the head, but I have terrible aim.
At this elo, certainly!

To be fair, I'm a terrible Zen too.
Or good zen?
But this is the same as Pharah

Is the widow/pharah JOB to kill the Zeny, and isn't Zeny's fault to die there...

But if the Zeny picks the Widow / Pharah, that is an shame on you dps player man
It's a "relief" dueling a tracer knowing that you only need a body shot after one headshot
I consider Zen an distant parent from McCree, you can basically do the same as an McCree does, but from far away
Yeah I suppose I must as it's not really an issue for me. Nothing bound on scroll wheel up or down. Melee is E but honestly don't use very often outside of cancelling alt fire. Usually too many other actions and too far away from people. 

I also use alt fire less after going on a bad losing streak as my vods showed I was going overboard with it. So back to basics: harmony>discord>left click> standing around so charge up a shot


One of my biggest gripes playing Zen is often being left to babysit the payload. It happens so often to me, it's getting memeworthy. I've got an average of 2m Obj Time on him, compared to 3m with Rein and Lucio - 2 Heroes that are better suited to pushing a payload and surviving flankers.

Thanks for providing detail on how other Heroes synergize with Zen. I try to hang around Symmetra/Torb Turrets when flankers start noticing me and have known a few Zaryas that make me feel invincible and loved by her bubble. 
> Over that 10 second period, Zen is going to heal 30 x 10 = 300 hp. Lucio is going to heal 7 second of regular heal x 16.25 + 3 seconds of amp it up x 46.8 = 254.15 to everyone on the team (well, a little less to himself). That's 554 health. Mercy would do 600 in that same time-frame.

Yes, that's multiple target healing. It's the strength of Lucio.

But he's not a tank sustainer.

>In the mean time, Zen is actively damaging (at pretty much the level of a full dps character), and increasing the damage done against, the enemy team

But that still doesn't make him a tank sustainer.

>So long as your team is playing to your comp's strengths, Lucio/Zen is perfectly fine for keeping a tank up.

Then they're not tank sustainers, they're simply playing with tanks.

With that same logic, Soldier:76 is a tank sustainer because he can heal and also kill anyone who tries to damage the tank.
Might just be me but I am super lucky about smacking Tracer in the face with an orb, then following with a kick and trading with her when she pulses. Sombra is way more scary for me.


Protip: If you're near an Orisa shield and you get tagged by a tracer bomb, walk through the shield. The bomb will stick to the shield instead and destroy it.
> Reinhardt's barrier either breaks or he is just forced to lower it because he's hacked, not sure.

Both, IIRC. He can't raise a shield because he's hacked. If he had the shield out when the EMP went off, the shield also takes 2000 damage.
IIRC Rein's breaks, but all 2000 health recover in the 6 seconds he cant put it up in anyway, so it doesnt really matter.
Also I believe that if Zarya is bubbled, the EMP doesn't remove her shields. And Zarya gets full charge off the bubble.
I would love that a lot
My bud is a Cree main and he stands on top of me most games. Protects my squishy ass and between the two of us we can melt anyone that gets behind. 
We're all Chipshajen now!
He's my go-to support when I don't play Mercy (support main here) and while I am in Masters, I still feel like a have a lot to learn with him. My best advice is probably my [replies](http://reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/6yfdsq/please_play_zenyatta/dmnpy0q) here, but these aren't exactly unknown knowledge. 
I also concur. The trick with Zen is that you should be a bit distant of your teammates so that you don't get instantly focused the moment the fight starts. But also, you should be close enough that your teammates can help you if you end up getting flanked. It's a hard thing to get used to but with enough practice it's very doable. 
This is mostly true, but Sound Barrier has 30m range and EMP is generally used to initiate fights. My (presumably) full-health team doesn't need my heals and can cope without my speed. When the fighting happens, it's just a 5v5 until Sombra shows herself. A revealed Sombra makes it possible for me to carefully join the fight as well, so Im never completely out of the fight.

The opponent will want to initiate a fight with EMP but if they can't catch me in it as well then the EMP will essentially have been wasted. 
With Zenyatta it's not so bad. You basically want to practice aiming at throat level. Especially for those hail-mary charged right clicks. It feels dirty to luck out and kill someone as they peak the corner-- but in a good way. Often when your targets are too far away you are more laying down a suppressing fire than intentionally targeted shots.


Irrelevant
Its zen (and other healers) job to stay alive, maintain good positioning and not take unnecessary risks. I see this attitude from so many support mains making dumb decisions and blaming their team for not protecting them. Just play your damn role!
You mean cousin? 
> Yes, that's multiple target healing. It's the strength of Lucio.
But he's not a tank sustainer.

That's irrelevant. The two of them combined are doing practically as much "tank sustain" healing as a dedicated Mercy but with a whole lot of other benefits. That 554 health number is only to the tank and doesn't even include the group healing. No one claimed that either was a "tank sustainer", just that having both on your team is powerful enough that you don't need a Mercy or Ana. 

> Then they're not tank sustainers, they're simply playing with tanks.

Where did this "tank sustainer" nonsense come from? No one used that term until you just now. The two of them combined do just about the same single target hps to a tank while also offering a host of other benefits. If for some reason your tank is getting shit on for more than his full health bar every 10 seconds, then he and the rest of the team are failing somewhere else. It also completely ignores their ults, and Zen's is pretty frequent, which are the ultimate "sustain" buttons to survive huge bursts of damage, like ult combos. 

> With that same logic, Soldier:76 is a tank sustainer because he can heal and also kill anyone who tries to damage the tank.

Let's not be retarded. The logic of saying that Zen + Lucio single target healing is slightly less than Mercy's with other perks is not the same as saying that Soldier's much lower overall single-target healing will keep up a tank. 
Yeah, tracers coming in for pulse bombs are usually easy targets for me too. No one expects the kick to the face. 
This is true, I first assumed it would kill both the bubble and the shield, took a bit to notice she only lose the bubble. Now if possible I try to wait for the bubble to expire before popping EMP, a Zarya without shields is *almost* killable ;)   
Now that I think about it, Zarya is the tank that succumbs the least to Sombra antics. Rein, Hog, Orisa, Dva, Winston, all get obliterated, but Zarya will just keep melting faces till the EMP wears off
yeah mccree and zenyatta is a super tough backline to break
That's a great point and I never thought of it that way. Treat his ult like  mercy's when playing a sombra. 
Peeking the widow with my lucio is totally worth it shh 

People just don't weight risk/reward actively and kinda autopilot shoot at stuff. 
Oh, yeah, sorry. Parent in my language means relative. I forgot that means Father in english
>That's irrelevant. The two of them combined are doing practically as much "tank sustain" healing as a dedicated Mercy but with a whole lot of other benefits. 

You need them both to cover as much as mercy or ana for a short while in an attempt at sustaining a tank, but yet you talk about the "other benefits" ? The other benefits when sustaining a tank with mercy or ana is that you have also another healer taking care of the rest of your team.
Any half decent tracer knows to start casting pulse bomb at distance then blink in at the last second. If tracer is consistent trading with zen when she goes to ult then she shouldn't be playing tracer to begin with. 
Yeah the fact that she maintains her charge through the hack is also handy.
And there's tradeoffs for every combination of those. If Lucio is your second, then it's less overall damage/burst potential; if it's Zen, then it's less AoE healing/no speed boost; if it's Ana, then it's both of those issues but with lots of other utility. 

You're acting like keeping up a single tank is of paramount importance in this game, like it's an MMO raid or something, and that's not even close to the case on most maps/team fights. 
> Any half decent tracer knows to start casting pulse bomb at distance then blink in at the last second.

D1bz, a Master tracer main on NA even said this is a difficult combo to pull off consistently so "any half decent tracer" isnt really correct.
_Yeah the fact that she_

_Maintains her charge through the hack_

_Is also handy._


&nbsp;


&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; ^- ^communomancer


------------------------------
^^I'm ^^a ^^bot ^^made ^^by ^^/u/Eight1911. ^^I ^^detect ^^haiku.
Imo rules of engagement in this game are much moba-like. Kill the core of a dive (winston eg.) and the dive ends. Tank role is meant to generate space for the team to act, keeping tank up and melting enemy tanks is a priority how i see it (i main tank, seconded by sup, barely even play dps).

There are tradeoffs aswell in picking a pair of passive healers, i'd priorize the type of healing and its utility given you and enemie's comp instead of picking them according to their "extra" value

When I started playing comp, I placed at 2200. Now, ~300 hours later, I'm 1900.
So like the title shows, I seem to be getting worse at the game. When I started, I stayed in low gold for a long time. Then slowly, started dipping and now I'm high silver. I've made a concious effort to improve at the game by going into practice mode and practicing my aim, watching youtube videos on positioning and how to use my the heroes I like to use, etc. Before I started playing comp, I had about 100 hours in qp so I wasnt a noob at the game when I started comp either. I'm just frustrated with this game and THIS close to quitting it at this point. Is this normal or am I doing something very wrong? It just seems like every game is dictated by how good my team/the enemy team is and that I barely factor into it at all. Normally if my team is good, I do well too. However, if the team is bad or the other team is really good, I'll do very poorly. And these happen about 50/50 so I don't know how to climb. I have improved imo a lot mechanically and game sense wise but it isn't translating over to my SR. I also posted VODs on another site a while ago and got feedback and tried to listen to it but my SR is about 200 lower now since when I posted those VODs...

So should i just call it quits? I don't know how to imporve at this game.. Its weird too because as soon as I hop into deathmatch, I dominate so my mechanical skill is not the problem but if its game sense, I cant seem to improve that whatsoever no matter how hard i try. At this SR, everything just feels chaotic and my team just does really dumb stuff/makes really bad team comps and in those games, I pretty much stand no chance no matter how hard I try it feels like.

edit: Also, I only solo queue.or that you havent improved as much as the other players and the whole playerbase shifted right above you
Don't quit, take a break from the game. Play something else for a bit and come back later. Sometimes you just need a soft reset.
Do you look to punish stuff? If you cannot formulate a gameplan for something stupid (ex: 5 dps-> winston/dva) or even "what am I doing for the next 10 seconds", then looking to improve isn't what you want.
Record your game, then watch and analyze? 
What heroes do you normally play?
Honestly, I can't say much because I'm in gold myself, but this season, I was placed 1800 silver and now I'm sitting at 2340(and still climbing). How I managed to climb 500 SR was through communication. Like seriously, ask everyone to join team chat, ask them to join even if they can't talk. What I did was during team fights, I'll call out for kills, like McCree is half or Zarya is full energy, focus her down. Calling focus targets allow your team to focus their attention on them instead of just spraying your guns at whoever you encounter. More people join voice chat, more likely you're gonna win. That's my advice. 
Your initial placements mean shizzle as you have the QP MMR involved and a lot of luck. So if you won ur first game,  the second one you played with diamonds/plats. Thus, I bet you are getting mechanically better but your positioning and risk management stayed the same level as it's very hard to improve it conciously. Post a VOD to review in this thread. After that, record your games and when you lose, fastly go through your deaths and why've you got them. Then force yourself to literally speak to yourself what are you going to do right now in the game, like a live commentary. Come back in 2 weeks with results to discuss. This helped me a lot.
Climbed from 1800+ to 2900+ over 5 seasons. Other people got from lower SRs to higher SRs much faster. Everybody has their own pace but ultimately if the game isn't fun for you, take a break and come back at it.

If you want, you can PM me your battle tag and I can take a look at your recent plays. :) I know the situation you're in (every season I'd drop 200-300 SR before bouncing right back).
Post a replay of a ranked game so we can see what you actually do in game.
I'd love to take a look at your Winston if interested, 3600SR and 200h on the monkey 
The best way to move out of ranks is to get really good at 1 hero. I climbed to diamond with pharah and I'm close to Masters this season by playing rein.
Same happened to me when I started competitive last season. Got placed at about 1600 and rapidly fell to 1200. Currently hovering at about 1400-1500.

From my experience quick play and competitive are two very different ways to play in. So I would expect your play style to need some adjustment. Just focus on the fun aspect for now while you get used to the way people play in comp and you should be able to become more consistent.
I've been playing the game since launch, but my first competitive season was 3. I came in at the very end and placed 1984 the day before the season ended. Next season, I played around 1500 and dropped to around 1200 by the end of the season. Then this last season, I placed around 1000 and dipped as low as 700 before climbing back to just a bit under 1000.

So, I thought to myself: what's going on here? Am I getting worse? Is everyone else getting better? Both?

I decided that the only one of those things I could control was myself. I looked back on what worked for me and where things went wrong. 

Season 3, where I did well (relatively), I tried to one-trick Zenyata. I won every game I played with him. The ones I lost were the ones where someone convinced me to switch to another character. Season 4, I tried to play D.Va, Sombra, Pharah, Reinhardt, Lucio, and Zenyata. I was all over the place. Season 5, I tried to stick mostly to Mei, Lucio, and Zenyata, but would play other stuff, too. I won almost every match as Mei, but people would get so angry with me for playing her that I would often switch and then lose.

So, the lesson I took to heart was that I'm just not currently good enough with enough different characters to be a flex player. I need a pick that people will almost always be fine with me playing. That almost definitely means support, because most people at my SR want to pew pew pew. I decided to start practicing with Mercy and try to be a Mercy main, still willing to switch to my tried and true Zenyata. I started doing my placement matches, playing nothing but Mercy except in one match where we got down 2-0 on my best Mei map and we had a Lucio. I switched to Mei and we came back and won it. At this point, I'm 4-1 in placements by following my strategy. No telling what this will mean in my eventual rank, but I'm having fun and feel better about my playing, which is what matters. 

EDIT: Oh, and streaks matter. If I lose, I take a break.

tl;dr - I'm a scrub who figured out that I need to stick to support.
It may not be the case that you've been getting worse over time, it could be that the system simply placed you too high to begin with. No matchmaker is perfect, the less information it has to go on the bigger errors it will make, being placed too high or too low to begin with then evening out over time is likely to be commonplace.
You posted vods back then. Post those vods again and post new ones from today. Then we can compare if you actually improved on those things. But just describing what your problem is without giving visual examples is kind of pointless.
I've been exactly where you have been. My high was at low plat, but I soon fell to low gold. I went to a three day losing streak where I didn't win a single match. It started to improve again when I stopped solo queuing. 

Find some friends you know you can work with. Not only do you have, at a bare minimum, someone you can coordinate with, they can help take the edge off the game. At least for me, being able to just talk to my friend and breakdown why a game went well or poorly helped make more games feel productive. The group I tend to play with now has mostly plat players with some in the low diamond range and watching their plays and learning from them also helped. 

TL;DR
Play with friends, it helps having a reliable teammates and it's more fun!
I'm guessing it is one of a few things.

1. Positioning and timing- always be in a position that you can get out of. If Dva or Mccree ults, you should always be close enough to cover to escape. Constantly ask yourself if you are in a position of advantage - do you outnumber the enemy? Is the enemy distracted? What ults do the enemy have? 
When I was in gold I thought I had good positioning. I did not. Seek out and control all of the best angles. Play at your effective range and outside of your enemies. I can't count how many times I have seen an ana or 76 right in front when they can do their job just as easily from across the point, in the back, near cover.

2. Attitude- you mention that you feel helpless and that games are entirely determined by your teammates. None of that matters. 300 hours is a pretty big sample size of games. Win/loss doesn't matter. Play your absolute best. Stop caring about your teams bad picks, stop trying to teach your team, stop trying to win and just play better. 
Someone complains ONCE? Mute. 
Can't get your team to work with you? Start working with them- only fight targets they engage. Focus what they focus. No heals? Sit back and protect your supports, peel for them.
If you start down a path of "my team is trash" it is too late. You have tilted and aren't playing your best. Take a break.

3. Gamesense -I think you probably have this. It sounds like you do at 300 hours. Now start calling it out. 

"I think zarya has her ult. Try to save trancendance" 
"I will have blade ready but I think Lucio has barrier up. Can you focus him for me?"

Try to guess what people will run before the match even starts and between rounds. Have a plan of attack. Guess what your team mates will be trying to do and help them. Pick an attack route. Tell people to fall back when they are outnumbered.

It sounds like your mechanical skill is fine, it's a matter of working that into whatever fucked up comp your team comes up with or whatever dumb things they do.

Stay positive and just keep grinding.  
The most important thing in the game is staying alive. The more you die the less time you have to secure kills/heal etc. So work on your positioning. Try staying away from open areas where you have no cover. Think twice before chasing a kill that might get you killed instead. 

What heroes do you play? Flexing is great but being good a few characters can help you climb as well. I climbed from 1900-3200 last season mostly playing Junkrat. I'd say the biggest thing I learned was when I knew I could take a fight vs when I had to leave immediately to stay alive. Also if you have time, try watching some streams of people that play the characters you play. You might learn some tips and tricks.
If it makes you feel better, the system often dumps people fresh out of placements in mid gold only to revert them down slowly. I've had a couple friends who had the same thing happen. It probably shouldn't have placed you at gold in the first place; it's unlikely you've gotten *worse* at the game.

Gold is better than you'd think. Everyone craps on gold, but most of the playerbase is either gold or plat.

The best advice I can give you is quit if you're not having fun. But remember that SR, rank, etc. is all just some virtual meaningless crap in the grand scheme of things. Play for fun, it'll take a load off your shoulders.
Well obviously vods are the best means of improving.

Using what you have given I have a few comments. First, your attitude towards a few things should change. You should be able to communicate with people through voice. If someone is toxic, just mute them and ask your team to mute them. Second, you highlight what is wrong with the SR system. Almost everyone places in gold/plat. Some fall to low bronze after that, and others climb to GM. So don't think that just because you've fallen you're automatically doing poorly. Third, don't ever be scared to play on your alt account. It's a game. I completely agree with you, perhaps it's SR system that is doing it, and perhaps you should be higher, but there is some reason you can't climb out of gold, so try to work on that. It's supposed to be a fun game, try to have fun climbing, and if you don't, it's okay. Just a game. Fourth, Time spent playing the game doesn't translate into improvement. You need to set goals and try to reach those goals. It sounds like you have spent a lot of time on mechanical skills, but in this game that's not well rewarded because people can just play characters that don't require great mechanical skills, and they climb. It's about game sense. By far the number one thing that was ever said to me was, "Understand why you lost a team fight. Understand what is needed to win the team fight next time." It's crazy how stupid some people are. We had a Rein on my team yesterday who knew that there were symmetra turrets at the choke on Eichenwald, but he decides that he NEEDs to use his ult. He waits until the last minute of the game, ults in the choke, I nano him, and he sends his whole ult in symm turrets. I should have just gotten off ana and gone Winston. What is the victory condition? And is there an order to it? For example, someone said, "They have a teleporter, and we need to take it out." That's nice. But we clearly needed to get through the choke first. So watch your own vods, review them, and figure out what happened. The sooner you recognize this, the sooner you climb.
There really isn't very much difference between 1900 and 2200.  Where you were placed and where you are currently also aren't an exactitude of your actual skill.  Stay positive, enjoy the game, forget about SR, and make a contribution to the team in every game.  If you want to improve, learn to communicate and properly position.  Great place to start is watching Flame's analyses.  It's insightful into the perspective of someone who thinks about the game at a level way higher than yours.  It'll help you adjust your decision making.

https://www.youtube.com/user/flame617
Learn multiple roles. Swap heroes to suit your team comp against the opponents. Improve mechanically. Improve macro play. Hope that team mates don't outright throw or leave as soon as someone locks hanzo.(last point you can only hope for, maybe try to calm them down to focus on winning and less  on whining, doesn't work for me, may just work for you)

Hope you get out of silver soon mate. Good luck. 
If you really dominated DM you'd start getting better opponents in DM so that eventually it would even out and you wouldn't dominate it. 
When people say shit like this it's very obvious they are either lying or played like 3 games got some gold elims and then stopped playing lest they ruin those nice 3 games. 
You are not interpreting the videos and tutorials correctly. You are missing the points. Get a vod for us to review or keep playing with better players to get a sense. 

I knew someone who did the exact same thing but never improved until it finally clicked in his head and actually understood fully what the videos and tutorials were trying to explain 
Don't overthink it. Your improvement isn't dictated by your SR. Just keep focusing on your own game and improve the things you want to get better at. I think really the most important thing is to find others that also want to improve and queue together and have FUN together. It is a game after all. 
Why do you think your Sr should increase with playtime?
Simply put, you're not improving at the rate everyone else is. Don't worry about it because at the end of the day it is just a game.
I can say a lot on your post.

1. At season 2 the game would have more players on higher ranks then now, so if you was 2,5k on Season 2 is the same as being 2,0 on season 3 (not exactly the same, but around the same)

2. People all over the ranks got better, if you watch an 1y/o video of an Masters game and watch an Diamond game today, the Diamond will look a lot more higher rank

3. The more time you have on your account, more stabilized if your MMR, the game will try to keep you there and your SR will flutuate less and less (This is why you will see some players just destroying and see others that are complete doors that don't know even where is the enemy point at the same SR)

4. The hero you play can keep you at an fixed point, for example if you're an Lúcio main, you're a support and your team will determine how good is your gains / loses. Even if you destroy and get gold on everything, you still don't have the power to win the game by yourself (This is why is recommended to play Meta Heroes and Heroes with Carry potential)

5. The more heroes you play, harder will be to improve, the game calculates your MMR based on how good you're doing with an hero, if you play a lot of heroes and other player only play one, the player who play just one will be greater on him than you, is easy to get an bigger MMR playing just 1~4 heroes

______

What would I do if I'm you:

1. Pick an new hero, that I didn't played much before and only use him all season (only doing some fill picks here and there, always focus on the win aspect first) (Good heroes to try this now are DoomFist - Pharha - Junkrat - Torbjörn - RoadHog - The new Mercy - Symmetra and Zenyatta)

2. If your money allows it, buy an new account to play and see how you do there, avoid QP as much as possible, do some FFA Death Match until 25 and then ONLY RANKED! I see so many players stuck on an lower rank even that they clearly see that they're doing everything better than others. Buying an new account will show if that is really true or not, since the game will  give you an new rank accordingly to how you're doing not accordingly to all your past mmr

_____

About you being an Genji Main basically:

1. Genji do good when he attacks at the same time that his team is attacking, but if he goes in the wrong time, he will just die. This is why you feel like it depends on your team. You need to learn the right moment to engage

2. Since genji will be way forward than the team, most times you won't notice what the other players are doing, is useless to kill 3 enemies if all your team is on spawn. Always look what your team is doing

3. The biggest mistake of lower ranks is that everybody keeps going death after death, fights shouldn't keep for ever, you should engage as a group and try to win, if you're lower 2~3 heroes, probably you will lose, so retreat! Is hard to make your team do that, but you can keep an eye on the kill feed and as soon as you notice that the battle is lost, retreat! If retreat isn't easy, die as fast as you can, is better to die as a group than letting 1 or 2 heroes there on the point for a long time and then, when you re-spawn all your team just went without you to lose again
Two things. 

Just because you only solo queue doesn't mean you can't have strong teamwork and coordination skills. Peel for your healers when a Winston inevitably jumps on them. That Winston is playing solo, and you can easily climb if you turn 1v1s into 2v1s.

If everything looks chaotic to you slow down your game play. Keep track of enemy ults and position/approach the next team fight accordingly. For example, if they have graviton or emp you should play spread out.
Take breaks! I'm on the opposite side of the spectrum. I started comp in s2 and was placed high silver. I've steadily climbed since then with about 300 hours played and I just got to diamond yesterday. 

I've taken a one month break recently and came back super strong. 

There are three basic ways to learn overwatch in my book. 
1) Play with a learning mindset
2) Play with a performance mindset
3) research 

To elaborate a bit: For 1, this means that sometimes, you gotta play the hero you're not comfortable with. You gotta try that crazy pro play you haven't tried. Go for a crazy csgo type ana grenade. Basically expiriment and see what works and why! Don't put pressure on yourself to do super good during this, just focus on learning, trying new thingsk, and having fun. I don't do this in comp, only qp or arcade. 

For 2, This is the opposite of one, You need to really focus and do your ABSOLUTE BEST you can do. No experiments, no taking risky chances. Just unadulterated best gameplay you can produce. Competetive mode is by far the best for this. The quality of games in qp are simply not good enough to warrant the focus that performance mode requires.

You seem to already be doing 3 a bit if you're on this subreddit. Watch pro streams, watch world cup games, watch vods that are higher rank than you, watch vods that are lower rank. Watch your own vods. Look at stats (don't focus on them but read them and try to notice where you need improvement) READ READ READ! Give your brain the information it needs to make a bigger picture. 

The performance mode vs. learning mode is super important. It was brought up on this subreddit a while ago in much more detail. If you can consiously tell yourself which mode your in, and make sure to not only play in one mindset, you should improve. RESEARCH, PRACTICE, PERFORM, RESEARCH, PRACTICE, PERFORM. 
So now I'm down to 1750... The harder I try the worse I get... I really dont know why this is so hard.. 
Duo queue. 
Don't solo queue. And if you do, try your best to get everyone in team chat, even if they don't have mics. 

Ive only ever gone on ten game win streaks six stacking with a well balanced team.

I first place in season three at ~2100, then, through solo queuing, i plummeted as low as 750. Once i got a few good groups together through sheer charm and defense matrix, i started to only six stack and an on my way to play. I currently sit at 2450. 

If you're on pc, feel free to hit me up moteofdust#11580
your approach to the game is bad thus you dont improve, its very simple. so you should try to change something and maybe post vods.
Start a new account my friend. If you only solo q it's very hard to climb out of low ranks. It is a team game and there is a reason they are down there due to stuff like bad aim, teamwork or game sense. If you have good mechanical skill that can get you to at least diamond. After that you need combination of skill/gamesense/macro knowledge etc.
git gud
I know this is an unpopular opinion around these parts, but it's likely the fucked up system, not you.

I know this because I have an alt account I only do season placements on. I place Platinum on it every season. On my main account, I started out as Platinum and have been slowly dropping each season placement, with this season placement being in silver.

As usual, my placement account places platinum this season. I play the same characters, same style, same everything. The only thing that is different is the level. My placement account is level 38, my main account is 550. I suspect that your rank might factor in your level as well when comparing against the rest of the player base, which is kind of fucked up. 

My placement account has never played a QP match to skew hidden MMR or ELO.
But in the end, its the same thing. My ELO is slowly decreasing whereas it should be increasing. Most players at this level dont have nearly as many hours in the game as me and yet many of them are apparently better than me. I don't know, its hard to say how good someone is cause it all depends, for me at least, on the quality of my team. If my team is good, I'm really good. If they're bad, I happen to play bad too. I cant help it. I cant get kills going 1v6 or heal every single person if they keep walking into death.
I agree with this. It seems like every season I hit a slump half way through and lose 300 or SR in just a few bad days. At that point I know I'm probably burnt out and I take a few weeks off. Usually when I come back I start to climb again pretty quickly.

Losing streaks play into each other because you start to become more aggressive and tilted, leading to big mistakes during matches. The one I see most often are people blowing their ults during losing fights when they're on a tilt.
It might be worth noting that those 300 hours of comp just came in the last 2.5 months since Ive been off from uni over summer. Only casually played qp before then. I noticed that whenever I reach the 3 hours mark, my play starts to decrease dramatically and I almost always play quite a bit more than 3 hours a day...
I don't face the 4/5 dps teams on the opposing team too often for some reason and whenver I do, its usually a stomp in our favor so thats not the issue. I don't think Im making any glaringly stupid mistakes. And yes, I usually am thinking of what to do usually. Its mostly reactionary though, I dont have a plan going into a game other than knowing the principles of whatever hero I'm playing. 

When I play genji, I'm always looking into opening for diving into the backlines of the enemy team and taking out supports. When it's winston, I'm always judging when the best time to dive in/out is, looking at where my teammates are positioned, trying to pop up bubbles at the most opportune times to protect both me and my teammates, etc. And I do have very good games and I think Im getting better. But then I have games that are horrible as well where our team just gets completely stomped on and ultimately, I stagnate at the same SR. 
I play, in order of playtime, genji, winston, lucio, dva, soldier. Beyond those, I have only 10 or less hours on the remaining heroes. 
I don't have friends though... And also Id rather accomplish whatever climb I can do by myself. 
Ugh, on mobile, edit: play is plat.
I also don't use my mic since most people that play this game (at least at this SR) tend to get toxic as soon as things go even slightly badly and I don't want to be a part of that. And also if I can't do the climb by myself, I lose interest in the idea. Like getting to diamond with a group or duo doesn't excite me. Getting there by myself does. And if I can't do it, so be it. 
Lol grouping only raises the average elo of your opponents. Its awful advice to play ranked eith anything but one other person and even then you both have to play better than you would solo.
I actually did this and have an account thats at 2700 right now. But I don't like to play on it because it's too stressful because I don't want to lose rank on it as it's my only source of getting good games haha. But I actually think I did just get lucky getting that high because for some reason I win a lot more often on this account and I can't think of any other reason than luck. Ive only played about 70 games in total on that one though. 

But yeah, I want to climb with my original account also because it has all my skins and stuff.

edit: also maybe worth noting is that when I did placements on my alt account, I placed at 2400 season 5 and 2550 season 6. On my main account I placed 2200 both times but I'm down to 2000 now (climbed up from 1900 now). 
Your ELO shouldn't be increasing. This subreddit (and other sources) has planted the idea that your MMR should grow, but it has no reason to. It represents your skill relative to the playerbase. If you stagnate, it just means you are improving as fast as the rest of the players (or in your case, *slightly* slower). This is great, and I don't know why you would expect more. It sounds like these people that say : "everyone can be a millionnaire". It's false, life doesn't work like this, and you shouldn't frustrate yourself over it.

In the end, the objective of the MMR system is to provide you with balanced games with players of your skill level. It shouldn't be taken as a representation of your self-worth. Just have fun playing, maybe you will climb, maybe you won't. Who cares?
Not a statistician so bear with me on the explanation:

The more people there are in a given population group the more likely there will exist people 1, 2, 3, or etc standard deviations above or below the mean.

Meaning that the less people there are in a given group, the greater chance someone you pick at random will be close (relatively speaking) to the top level of performance.

Just for example, there were 7M people playing Overwatch in June of 2016. There were 30M as of May. Meaning there has been a significant increase in the population of Overwatch players.

Overwatch is a relatively simple game to learn (as opposed to something like LoL where you have to have play each of their 138 characters). Many of the mechanical skills that make people good at Overwatch have been utilized since before people were even playing Counter Strike. Thus, the hours you spend really don't add any tangible skill advantage unless you explicitly improved your game during those hours (as opposed to something like powerlifting where how long you've been lifting -- even poorly -- is a significantly tangible advantage over someone who may be more technically proficient). 

***tl;dr:*** Hours played are not a major factor at the mid to low ranks in Overwatch. Sometimes your mechanical proficiency (such as aim and random movement) as well as game-sense are bigger determinants of this and these skills can often be honed without playing Overwatch. The more people that play Overwatch, the more of these people with these skillsets are likely to play thus decreasing your rank if your skill level stays more or less the same.
Hm give me info on these
avg fps/pc specs +monitor hz
also link to the vod if you still have it
> I noticed that whenever I reach the 3 hours mark, my play starts to decrease dramatically and I almost always play quite a bit more than 3 hours a day...

So... stop playing more than 3 hours a day, or take a break between play sessions.  
I spent all of season 4 and the first half of season 5 playing long sessions, minimum of 10 games at a time. I slowly dropped from 2.7k steady rating, with a high of 2950ish, in s3 to 2.1k

I now play with a hard cap of 5 games at a time, and I was 2.5k end of s5 (just placed mid 2400s after a losing record in my placements), and still climbing. I put that change almost entirely down to the fact that I'm not playing while tired any more.

Be strict with yourself, if you know you can only go 3 hours, don't go past 3 hours. Set an alarm, have a plan to go somewhere at a fixed time 3 hours after you start playing, whatever it takes for you to actually stop when you want to stop
Deathmatch has really shown how much my aim potatoes out by the end of the day/night.  Hell, even my Winston jumps get worse.
Yeah stopping after a while is good. For me if I do good I get too cocky and stop playing smart and if I do bad that long I get so frustrated that I don't even think about what I'm doing wrong.
 Tldr: i play brainless after playing for too long whether I do good or bad
I cannot speak much for Genji but do you kill secure with him (who is low and I can help kill right now?) and do you punish Mei/Reaper when they blow flashbang/Iceblock? It seems you "want to go for the supports" when there's plenty of opportunities to do smth else.

For Winston: why not use bubble for yourself? The instances where you use it for teammates are so rare and it's not the purpose of your character. When I play Winston, the biggest go sign are Genji blows his dash and won't get a reset or 2 squishes don't look at me and I can go in with my bubble and they don't do shit. Or someone is high ground and fuck you in particular (usually soldier). 
Because coordination is poor in solo queue, it's not hard to get one or two kill with winston and get away with it. Most don't do shit if monkey jumps on them. If you get kills, you have a really good shot at winning the team fight despite useless teammates because there's less pressure on them to perform.
If you have winston ult, do you use it to stall the point even if feeding 1000hps to trade 10-20% capture time or even let a chance for your team to come back? Bump the hitscan player/Ana so he doesn't do shit this teamfight? Survive longer so your healers don't need to heal you? Bump people of the map? Finish a kill on a squishy? Do you utilise the jump reset when ult begins and ends (like Genji)?
Do you use the mic to say "Im going on X" and "X is low"? Winston is easy enough hero to let you communicate more. Those calls make wins come much easier.

More importantly for solo queue, do you press I need healing the instant you take damage? I have it bound to mouse wheel down and it's amazing how much more heals I get.
With Reaper and Junkrat common now, you should realize that they are very frequently higher priority targets than enemy heals.  Take Reaper off the field and your Winston can tesla down their Mercy easy-peasy.   Leave him there and your tanks either hide or melt.  
One thing that's helped is to increase my hero pool. I have about 10 heroes with >10 hours play time. That's a pretty small hero pool so in certain situations you won't be able to fill the role/hero that's needed. It's also very specific to season 5 meta which has changed heavily this season.
The reason why you aren't increasing is because of how much you are playing Genji and it's not because of your skill with Genji.  Heroes like Genji rely on their team and synergize with other heroes much more than you would think.  Because of this, a good team makes a good Genji look great and a bad team makes a good Genji look terrible.  Just a few examples of this kind of synergy would be:

* The entire team focuses the target that Genji is attacking to help make sure he gets swift strike resets

* The team's DVA defense matrixing the Genji while he is ulting

* Zarya throwing a bubble on the Genji everytime he goes in

* Zenyata always having a heal orb on the Genji and discording his target

* Ana coordinating her ult with dragon blade

At higher SR levels, the players know how to enable the Genji to help him do his job.  This is not the case at Silver, Gold, Plat and often times even Diamond where I am.

I have two accounts, my main in Diamond and another account so that I can play comp with irl buddies in Gold.  Tracer and Genji fullfill similar roles so I'll give you this example.  I'm a Tracer main on the Diamond account but when I try to play Tracer on the other account, it is incredibly painful.  Either I wreck the entire enemy team or I'm the only one attacking the enemy team wondering where my team is.  Instead I found that I have a much easier time if I go soldier because at lower SR Soldier is a much better carry due to the range, helix rocket burst, biotic grenade self sustain and the sprint escape.  In addition, his ult doesn't put you at risk.


abolish this idea. If you have a good game solo, join up with one or two of the people who made that happen. Transient friends for a few games. You dont need to keep them long term. Just keep them for a bit of win streak. You are still accomplishing yourself, with added team work - which is what this game is about. It is 100000% a teamwork based game not a solo game!
Dont worry dude toxicity will get only worse when you climb :)
I see. Best of luck!
If you cannot, as a coordinated team, defeat another coordinated team with a similar group sr, you deserve to stay at the rank you are. If you like dealing with throwers, people who won't flex,  and people who won't communicate, enjoy what is known as elo hell.

Do the pro teams solo queue during pro games? Neither should you.

Op asked how, after 3(?) Seasons of failure, to climb, i shared my experience.
That's not how statistics or the system works...

Grouping takes your average and find opponents in same range. If you group with someone who has a lower SR than you do, it brings your group average down which means you play opponents who are, on average, going to be a lower SR as well. 
It is possible to climb out of the low ranks on your own. Season 5 I placed at 1490 due to messed up mmr from earlier seasons on my main and my season high was 2520 I believe. Most of the time I in soloq. And Im by no means great at the game.

However, I noticed that theres always a few 20o-300 sr drops from time to time. Thats a thing, sonetimes you dont habe a good day or you get unlucky. Thats the way things go.

Best way to deal with it is to stop caring for your actual sr. Then you dont focus on winning as much and you can call "bad" games good because you could improve a thing or two in them.
This is the real advice.  

I've played a ton of csgo and overwatch and I've learned that, while I have peaks and valleys, my rank generally remains in a good place for me. I try new things like the stuff other people are suggesting and I've moved up a bit as I learn, but I've definitely plateaued and I don't see any huge jumps in my future.
 
I enjoy the games and I generally don't feel like I'm being stomped or doing stomping. Just be happy you've found a game you like with a sizable playerbase that you can consistently find games with your skill level.
Well stated.  It frustrates me seeing so many people not understand the goal of competitive play.  Jeff has explained more than enough times their intention with the competitive mode and it's SR system.  Too many people assume all ranking systems across different games are the same.
You do realize you are posting on a subreddit about improving at Overwatch, right?
I disagree with this. When you put time and effort into something, you get better and this should show. I have other hobbies/goals in life too and I notice I'm continiously improving at them. Like take college for example. I chose to pursue an engineering degree and I sucked at first, got straight B's in my first quarter. I studied harder and by third quarter had straight A's. The following year I transferred to top tier engineering school. I worked hard and I climbed. If what youre saying was true then I'd still be a B student in school. And I don't think Im lucky or a millionaire in that sense, I just worked hard. It should be the same in this game too but it hasnt been so far so theres still something else I have to do that I'm not understanding fully.  

edit: The thing is that the average person doesn't put in the effort. Most people are just playing and not trying really that hard to improve. But I've done what most probably haven't by posting VODs and watching pros stream/tutorials and practicing my aim. That alone should have at least gotten my ELO up to plat so i'm confused why its lower. If you put in the effort, you SHOULD climb. Maybe I've put in the wrong kind of effort. Thats why I'm so frustrated with this cause I haven't experienced this kind of stagnation before despite a lot of effort being put in...
Just have fun is the hardest thing to learn and the only thing that will help. 

I've climbed from 1600 to 2100 in 2 seasons and I can say this: gold/silver teams make it really really hard to have fun playing this game; they flame easily and complain a ton. I've played at higher Elos on console diamond-master) before moving to PC (overwatch first PC game ever) and experiencing low Elos and I can say definitively it is a lot harder to have fun at lower Elos.

The thing is you just have to not care, and for someone who loves the game and wants to improve that's hard, but it's the only way. 
Ill make a new VOD since those ones are too old now. 

As far as specs go, I play the game at the lowest setting at a constant 70fps with a 60Hz monitor. 
Yeah now that summer is almost over, I've stopped doing that. It hasn't been long enough to tell if it's making a difference or not. And yeah I'm very bad with breaks too. My game sessions are usually straight comp game after comp game until I get bored/too frustrated and then I go do something else.  I am hoping this is a major reason for this but I'm kind of doubtful.. it can't make that much of a difference can it?
I do literally all of those things except using the mic. And for the bubble, 90% of the time its for myself so I can go in and out of it as Im engaging whichever person I've dived on, especially if theres lots of enemies around. I watch xQc's stream sometimes and just try to imitate what he does when he plays winston.

And I have no issues with using "I need healing" a lot even as genji since it usually does get me heals almost instantly like you said if theres a healer nearby
"genji says i nee healling hur dur"

This meme needs to die completely. It is legitimately effecting some ppl because they are too scared to press that button...
eh, Id argue the opposite. Id learn around 2 heroes extremely well, then learn the counters to those heroes counters. So for me I play Winston and lucio. Im confident in  1v1 with winston against anyone except a Roadhog, Bastion or Reaper. If the enemy is causing me enough of a problem with those 3 I switch to Dva and DM them. I got placed in gold this season and made it to Diamond in only about 40 wins (and 20 losses) playing Winston lucio and Dva in that order. If you play a specific hero a lot youll be better than the enemy teams player who has flexed onto the hero when youre both at the same ELO
in comp or nah?

One trick ponies disagree with  you. Just playin tracer and soldier got me top500.  Not only this but also I can play with any hero at GM level now even tho I didnt touch them except with mystery heroes. 
Why did people downvote you lol 
When I watch streams of people in master/grandmasters, it doesnt seem nearly as bad there. 
Exactly. Six stacking just allows you to have a team that you know how to work with, that you know how to communicate with, you know who is good at what, etc. 

Of course, the other team gets that same benefit. But i like a challenge.
that isn't the right way to think about improvement. there are two issues with your example.

firstly,  you got A's by studying hard because you've been in school for nearly 20 years and during that time you've learned what it means to "study".  in other words you've learned how to learn at school.  you can't apply that same principle to something you have no fundamental basis of knowledge in.  If I exercised by walking 10 miles a day it's unreasonable for me to think I could beat the world record mile time.  Now you say but I've worked so hard and trained so much, except you haven't been training the right way or for the right thing.  you can't expect to get better simply by playing.  sure, some people can, they are more talented than you.  which brings me to the second point.

it's equally unreasonable to expect to be able to accomplish anything just because you work hard.  someone with a mental disability is never going to be able to solve complex math problems no matter how hard they try, and a quadriplegic is never going to complete a triathlon under their own power.  likewise there are those who are naturally gifted with talents.  just because there exist new players that start out in silver and reach GM within a few months doesn't mean everyone is capable of it no matter how hard they play and practice.

and by your own admission, you know you're still missing out on something, that's exactly it, you don't know how to improve, so simply saying "i work hard, so i just need to play more" won't necessarily equate to improvements.
First of all, congratulations on your academic achievements, that's great to hear! I'm sorry to disagree with you on the overwatch part. I think a vast majority of players are actively trying to improve. That's what they say at least in my games and I have no reason to doubt them. 
Man, there a people who play sunday league soccer in the lowest tier for their whole life. It's not always about reaching higher levels. I think if you play the game because you like the game then that's about it. 
What makes you think that SR is at all an accurate description of player skill?

I was Diamond in season 3. Now I hover about 2700 in season 6. Am I worse player than in season 3? No, I am objectively better because in 3 seasons I learned a lot more heroes and playstyles, and certain very important aspects that went over my head a year ago. 

A four digit number doesn't describe me, and it never will. I am fine where I am SR-wise. I have personally had more enjoyable matches in Gold than what I am having in high Platinum in the last 4 months. I will keep trying to get better, to try to get that number higher, but if I can't, that's fine too.
Doing shorter but more frequent sessions has proven to be way more effective for learning any skill than grinding for a long period of time. That's just how our brains work. Why shouldn't it apply to gaming as well?

Try playing only a couple of matches at a time and be very analytical about it (take notes, watch replays, etc.). Give your brain time to process what you learned and you will improve!
So you're playing dive, the strategy that requires the most team coordination, without coordinating with your team. That might be a problem. Proper dive means calling out a single target, having the entire team shutdown and kill the target, then reset to defensible positions quickly.

You mentioned elsewhere you focus on flanking into the back line and killing the supports. What is the rest of your team doing when you do that? If the answer is not "creating a large threat on the frontline" then what you're doing is not a flank, it's an out of position 1v6. If there is no frontline threat, there's no flank.
I need hearing
i'd say i know genji pretty well, i have 150 total hours on him. When I play deathmatch with him, I almost always win my 1v1s regardless of whatever hero Im up against. Even 1v1ing genjis that are diamond SR, I usually win my 1v1s. However in games, Im much more inconsistent. But at the same time, Im still by far best with him as far as dps goes. My soldier skills suck in comparison, Im horrible at tracking. Recently I started mcree and he works much better with me as I've developed a pretty good flick shot playing genji. But still, I cant really carry with anyone at any SR whether its high gold or silver. Even with my second most played hero Winston, games go either two ways: My team is good and I make intelligent dives taking out supports+extras if I can and my team pushes with me and we get the point. And then theres games where my team is not supportive at all and every time I dive its a suicide cause it ends up being a 1v6. ANd I have no idea what to do in the second case other than just accepting the loss. No hero I can play can I carry with when that happens (which is pretty often).


How did you go from gold to diamond with only 40 wins?? I'm currently sitting at 32 wins 15 losses this season and I've gone from ~2000 to ~2200 in that time. Feels like I need to keep the 2-1 win ratio and I'll maybe get to plat in another 50 games...
It's a little different for you, since t500 soldier/tracer means you basically don't miss. That carries over to every character in the game. A top 500 winston, for the easiest example, could have shitty aim, and be basically throwing when he swaps to dps
Often people dont start throwin if they have someone with 10k wievers in their team. I have played on account that are in gold abd on my main which used to be 3.7k and i honestly didnt see much difference. biggest difference was that there is more people losing games on purpose around 3.4k - 3.6k sr
Actually I dropped out of school in middle school and did just online courses for high school which were the easiest thing ever. I was a horrible student. I was really clueless coming into college. Probably more clueless about how to study than playing games since that actually is something I've been doing my whole life.

The thing is that for school, maybe I did have some natural tendency for it cause it wasn't that difficult. I did see plenty of people trying just as hard as me but not getting the results they wanted. I always put that down to them studying hard but not smart. But maybe natural talent is a bigger factor than that. If that is so, then it would make more sense as to why Im bad at this- I just dont have the natural talent which also seems weird cause this is not a complex/deep game. Or maybe me thinking that is the root of the problem- it's a lot deeper than I'm thinking and it's all going over my head. 

..Because when you're more skilled you win more and your SR goes up
if you're consistently winning DM games, then it means your dm skills are good enough at your SR (DM does matchmaking based on SR).  

this means the reason why you're stuck at the SR you're at is because you have awful positioning and game sense.  that weakness is further enhanced if you don't communicate with your team when you attempt to make plays.  the only way to learn proper positioning is to let other people pick apart your vods, and hopefully you are capable of learning from the mistakes you're committing.
I was placed at 2499, and got to 3013. I gain around 20-25 per win and lose about the same so it takes around 20 or 25 more wins than losses to gain 500 SR for me 
being good at this game at its core is 90% about positioning/timing and game sense.  this is why some GM players can play symmetra, winston, reinhart, and every hero that doesn't require aim from bronze to GM.  those players have superior positioning and game sense.

that fact that you cite your DM performance is telling that you don't have a good sense of the importance of the aforementioned skills.  while mechanical skill and DM skill IS important, it exists to supplement everything else.  it's like trying to solve a jigsaw puzzle, you may have a few scattered chunks of the middle fitted together, but if you don't start out by piecing together the edge first you're going to have a much harder time with the puzzle.
This game can definitely be played at a simple level but by no means is it a not complex and deep game.  You can point and click aim but you can also try to predict movement, count enemy ammo, estimate enemy ultimate meters, etc etc etc.  A lot of people said Lucioball was simple and stupid... But many of them were at best diamond.  The game's depth increases as you go higher up.
Only if you are more skilled COMPARED to your opponents.
Classic Genji shit too, if we are being honest.

Mediocre Genjis notoriously tunnel and do dumb shit like dive at the worst time for their team. Their team gets wiped out, Genji pops ult and gets 2-3 kills, dies, and then goes all "??? Heals? Follow up?"

Genji and Tracer can play loose on personal positioning but this is offset by a higher game sense requirement. So many don't know when to tap the breaks and look behind them to see what their team is up to.
I'll add to this too. I play a lot of tracer, and this was one of the things I noticed makes a big difference. Still stay grouped with your team, and treat your mobility almost like a bungee cord back to your tanks. When they start pushing the front, dive the back to the healers for a couple seconds, hopefully close out the kill and then back to your team. The dive and burst abilities are what make tracer and genji so good, but at the expense of putting your team in a 5v6 situation. Even though you may be mechanically good, if your wins are constantly from a 5+1vs 6 situation, they're actually carrying you.
Agreed
Yeah it seems these things are just really difficult for me to pick up. Watching videos and stuff doesn't really help since every game is different and you kind of have to adapt. I suck at the adapting part I suppose. I just need to get a new VOD cause I don't think watching more vids or posting here will help me improve. 
When watching good players do stuff you should not only try to copy what they do, you should also try to understand why they would pick certain options or do certain things. Once you understand why good players do certain things sometimes but pick a different option at a different time then you can start looking for these situations in your own games. They may be doing something in reaction to playing against a certain hero comp, or just where people are, or even based off of what ults they their team or the opponents have available at the time (Spreading out to avoid grav or chasing people out of cover when you have dps ults up on your team etc.)
Emphasis on timing. This game is huge on the importance of timing. Watch pro vods and pay attention to when they go I  using audio cues. They go in when their team engages and is distracting the enemy team. Hence why flanking at crucial times is so important 

How to progress in a team?
Recently I've made it to a mid-masters team taking dps role. Are there any useful guides or other teaching materials regarding teamwork I should check? Maybe povs or anything else following...
As far as communication is concerned, I'm afraid I don't have much advice. I'm in a similar situation in terms of individual SR, and if it's any help, reaching out to get a second opinion can make all the difference. For example, I worked with a Private coach who showed me a lot of the major mistakes I made. A friend can help as well, just having a fresh set of eyes can help fix your issues and make you a better player. Hope it helps!

Best support for carrying in gold?
Opinions?zen by far if you have good positioning and can stay alive

ana is pretty good too if you land lots of offensive nades and sleepdarts

having a lucio on koth will boost your winrate surely, taking roles such as shotcaller will help you even more

i dont recommend mercy but paired with pharah you should win games

i think all supports are pretty good to climb tbh
Feel that Lucio or zen is the real potential

Zen if you give callouts and know who to discord

Lucio if u have good movement and aim and know who to boop and where/when to boop them

Also, DO NOT FEEL THAT YOU NEED TO CARRY, 10/12 ppl in your game belong in that rank so it is fairly even. As zen esp, use your team as bait and wait behind them "stealing"kills and discording people who are getting shot at. Don't focus on who to heal, just throw your orb on a dps and if they keep leaving LOS just put harmony on someone else. If you don't have a mercy or Ana, leave your orb on a tank and throw it on ppl when they really need it. Stay back, LEARN POSITIONONG, the biggest thing about gold is that u can have shitty aim yet make it out with good positioning. Learn positioning and give your team a plan when attacking etc... make sure they are holding right places (after a fight u say "everyone come to high ground, NOW"). 

Lucio-if you have a mercy or Ana you should speed more, but below diamond you may still need to heal more bc your primary healer is only so good. Stick with your team, jump around like a lunatic and try to hit some heads too while you're up there. Speed for start of fights and heal when people get low. Save speed for running thru choke points and not always directly out of spawn. Tell your team the plan - let's all go right, I'll speed us thru it, we'll get the high ground and attack the point from there). If you see your rein/winst attacking someone but can't reach them SPEEEEDBOOST and shoot them too, don't boop. Your healing is only 16hps which is nothing bc almost any dps will out dmg that anyways so it's better to speed and make it harder for enemy to hit you and so that your team can chase and kill faster. Your boosted healing is equivalent to a mercy beam of heals about 60hps. So that is viable to save teammates. So if winst dives team, speed>E/boost> run back a bit>switch back to heals for a second before the boost runs out, you might be able to do, (.5 sec) speed, speed, speed, heal, speed, heal, speed until boost is over. Also use boost REACTIVELY on Def to peel, clutch heals, or or chase the last 2 down,  and PROACTIVELY for attack to speed to a destination or speed a plan. 

Lucio boops: DONT boop someone away if your team has short range heroes (winst/rein) Unless it's to save a life (reaper jumped onto you and a Winston, boop and speed back a bit).

DON'T boop blindly, there's some nice Dps combos bc u can shoot 3/4 shots then boop+melee (that's 32*3 + 25 + 30 = 151 dmg if 3 headshots, or 100 if 3 body)  also booping is a reactive ability, so you should save it and use it while you're fighting someone or if you realize enemies are on a environmental hazard area you Will have boop ready to go.

DO boop enemies away from their advantage positions (rein and 76 just sitting up top shredding? Tell team where you booping them down>flank>3shot+boop+melee>go back to team (prob stay speed) and chase those fuckers down OR boop more off. 

DO distract a dps that's carrying the enemy team(you have to work on wallriding etc, just try to stay alive in DM without just running away, you can run behind walls nstuff to make them chase etc.)

Hope this helps, I'm a mid masters player with shitty aim

I did a lot of Lucio/zen in plat-diamond 
Kill supports as Lucio

Profit.
Any support, other than Ana.

---
Trust me, gold does not have any idea how to react to a nano, unless you use it on a 76 who actually doesn't charge head-first into the enemy team.

---
I've had reapers using Wraithform at full HP with nano on them, soldiers waking a slept raging Winston; or fail to kill a slept Tracer.

---
Ana is hard to play, but it is also hard to play with. 

---
Zenyatta is by far your best choice, as it provides healing, damage amp, good damage by himself and a team wipe nullifier.
Carry implies you're the one doing most of the work, over 60% kills or even higher for example. Don't think there's a healer that can have an impact like that just by themselves. You can heal all you want but if your team cant push or kill stuff then are you really carrying?

Everyone uses the word "carry." I don't think they know what it means...

Just play who you like. Lower ranks don't tend to stay alive as long so any healing is welcomed. Just make sure to understand dps and tank roles so you know who needs priority, damage boosting, etc. You really do need to know what all other 11 people are doing as much as possible to be truly effective.

Zen tends to be good because confirming kills and bad aim will always be a problem so discord helps w that. Same for Mercy's damage boost, gives your dps the edge.

Lucio is good on koth maps but in lower ranks, speed boost isn't as effective because there's less teamwork and Lucio's don't really wallride much.


Old mercy is really good for carrying. Most mercy players in low gold / silver are really bad so just by paying attention to who needs healing / dmg boost, getting good rezzes, and staying alive you can drastically improve your team's chances of winning. Zenyatta is great too if you have good aim and can manage orbs.
Whoever you enjoy playing the most. If you want to climb the ladder you will need to improve your play enough to consistently win most of your games at your current skill level. That will take time and it will take focus. It's much easier to constantly pick someone you enjoy playing than forcing a hero to work for you.
Carrying, in the strict sense, is almost impossible in Overwatch and this goes even more so as Support.

With the strict sense of carrying, I mean that you can play so well that having a team this is outclassed by the enemy and still winning. Overwatch is designed very much about team dynamics and barely allows for this.

What you can do as an individual player is to shift the odds of victory in favor of your team. As a character that focuses on damage, you do this by reliably and often getting picks and picking the right targets. 

As a support player, you need to approach this differently. Your biggest power is shoring up the weaknesses of your team and increasing their strengths. No matter what support character you play, you do this by triage (picking the right people to heal), creating opportunities for your allies to get kills, and communication.

Ultimately, you can do this as every support hero in the game, you just need to focus on the right things.
If you consider yourself to have decent aim, zen since you can 1v1 almost anyone with the right kiting and positioning 
Zenyatta personally helped me get out of gold several seasons ago. Discord really helps lackluster DPS get kills, the orb of harmony is an easy heal that's always on as long as your target is in LOS, and if you can learn to hit his projectiles he can get picks on squishies quite often. Spamming discords and right clicks at corners can net you some cheap and easy kills.

Not to mention his ult is a big team saver against Dragonblade, Death Blossom, and Graviton.
The problem with support carrying in gold is that too often a super good zen (best carry support by far) will not offset the effect of having really bad DPS players on your team. 

I've found that sometimes I'll be killing it on zen but if dps aren't focusing my orb callouts and my tank line is feeding it's impossible to carry. I think getting good with soldier or other high impact dps characters is a better option than auto-picking zen. That being said if you're filling and your team needs second support zen is best hands down. 

Another thing: if you notice you have one dps hero who's just wrecking the opponents  then it could be better to pocket mercy that player than to run zen, this is because staying alive as zen is super dependent on how your tanks play, and often they don't peel correctly. This makes mercy a bit easier to stay alive as in game IMO. 
Reaper is incredibly easy and takes 0 aim yet can do 200+ Damage per shot with a fast firing rate and can become invincible every 8 seconds. On top of that you have health steal and a teleport ability, and the easiest ult in the game to get a teamkill with. I think he's the best DPS in general in lower ranks and is amazing for carrying in gold. I also recommend Pharah but since she's an annoying hero with a large hitbox, people in gold like to focus you more than they focus mercy and supports, so you need to be sneaky and play mind games so they lose track of you.
Ana and Zen.  Their healing capability coupled with their ability to effectively deal damage gives them 1.5+ role coverage.  I can expound further upon this by going into the utility of discord, sleep, trans, nano, and nuke...  But it's pretty intuitive.  They are the most effective support roles for "carrying".
Zen if the other team isn't diving you hard. If you land your shots and call out your discords, the impact is tremendous. 
In my experience as a gold player, Mercy is the best bet if you can stay alive and consistently get 3-5 man rezzes while also knowing when a 1-2 man tempo rez will win you the fight. The Mercys who can do that (of which there are very few in gold) are always hard for my teams to deal with. It helps that flankers like Genji and Tracer don't get played that much.

Other than that, Lucio on maps where you can boop a lot (like Ilios or Nepal Sanctum) can be really pesky, especially if you have sound barrier whenever the enemy team uses their big ults. Zen is really good in general too if you have good discords.

Ana's not that great at gold unless you have really good aim, and then you'd probably be better on dps anyway.
I feel one problem with the lower ranks is that there's too little attempt at coordination and lots of trickling.  That makes any healer difficult because you're never there to heal your teammates when they need you.  And waiting for the next person to respawn doesn't give you that many opportunites to heal that teammate, and thus not a lot of ult charge.

Thus, I would probably pick supports who can get value in ways other than healing.  Perhaps Lucio or Zen.  Maybe even Ana.

Another option is to just play tank.  There's such a dearth of good tank play at Gold.  No good support play either, but nowadays, if I had to choose between filling as the only tank or the only support on my team, I would choose tank.

Definitely zenyatta
Hanzo
Mercy.  Stay behind your team.  Call out if someone is flanking or attacking you.  Don't wait for a five man rez.  Two is more than enough.  Try to be on the high ground even if your heal target is on low ground.  Exploit it while it works because thank God they are changing her....
Phara direct hit accuracy in gold though?
Parroting Zen. Put on headphones, keep your mic on, call out discords, melt bad guys, profit.
Also to add to this: just look up a simple guide to positioning and one for target priority, it will help you so damn much bc those are short vids but SOOOOO important to the game 
You forgot to say that you have to spam the "Suboptimal" voiceline every time you get the killing blow on a DPS for added salt.
I agree with this 100%. I played a game in gold as ana last night and I had a ulting solider slept in the back. It was my fault for not explicitly saying DO NOT WAKE UP THE SOLIDER WAIT UNTIL HE IS DONE ULTING. I thought that was something that people knew, but I immediately regret not screaming it in comms when they woke him up with 1 second left on his ult and he proceeded to shred me. 

Unless your teammates know how to play with an ana, don't try to carry with her. 
This, here, is Good Advice (tm). Please read and implement (minding halfway sane team comp though)
>Carrying, in the strict sense, is almost impossible in Overwatch and this goes even more so as Support.

As someone who's watched a Pro Genji kill my entire backline without ulting or a nasty Widow who's kills-per-deaths was at least 4, I disagree that it's impossible, although I'm talking about Gold rank.


TIL reaper is support nao
Yeah reaper is my favourite support
Mercy can't carry unless she's a goddess at rezing, and even that's dependent at a cooperating team.
same can be said about soldiers in gold and they are probably struggling more since pharhamercy is expected to be taken care of soldier which wont happen in most of the cases because its 2v1
Can confirm this. Maining zen this season, have 70% winrate with him and am now at my career high
I just use the "how. . . . . . . . . .disappointing" one
Carrying can only be done with a huge skill discrepancy, which isn't applicable to, well, pretty much anyone.
Mercy carries not just because of rez but because how easy it is to heal with her.  There are two things to remember about gold, players take a lot of unnecessary damage and their aim is not the best.  Lucio and Zen don't have the ability to consistently heal that amount of damage and players don't have the aim to be able to heal them with Ana.

If you are awesome with Ana, please feel free to disregard, but current meta, especially dive, is not Ana friendly since defense matrix and winston bubble both wreck her healing while trying to heal your tracer/genji that is diving the enemy line is incredibly hard given how small their models are and how quickly they move.



In order to carry, you can either capitalize on the other teams mistakes or prevent the enemy team from capitalizing on your teams mistakes.  I think Mercy fits very well in the later category while also being a much easier character compared to Ana, Lucio or Zen.
We could say that damage boosting outside of strong ultimates in gold is wasted where the support player could have contributed more damage to kills by simply whipping out the pistol briefly between healing.
Same here.  
Was/am soldier main, but have a 79% win rate on zen, after 24 games this season.

Guess we're all omnics now.
i dont think so, pharahmercy bascially stomps in gold most of the time

Ana main in gold - how do you solo queue your way up?
Hi!
So here's the thing. I have played Ana at multiple points on the ladder. I've been a diamond ana, i've been a plat ana, and even a silver ana. Right now, I'm in gold.

But here's the issue: No matter where I am, be it 3,300 or 1,800, I can always keep up with a 50% ish winrate, but I CAN NEVER CLIMB. What's the matter with me?

Second question: Anywhere below 2,700, the majority of my losses as ana is that I keep getting dived by a winston + genji and I get zero peeling. Clearly, people CAN climb out of this as ana, whats the best way to prevent being dived if you can't count on your team to help you out?

Thanks!Mid gold is one of the most toxic brackets in OW AND has the unfortunate distinction of seemingly having 50/50 balance of people who should be much higher but are stuck mixed in with a lot of people with very poor fundamental game sense. 

I let me nephew play on my account one weekend and he 'accidentally' played comp and dropped me to this tier. It took me a while to get out. If you get incompetent DPS players and the other team gets DPS players who could be diamond if they didn't insert whatever reason here, there is no winning those games. 

Ana is a great toon but she is one of the worst to carry yourself out of this bracket. You have limited ability to defend yourself relative to a zen, are easier to hit than a lucio, and can't clean up your teammates massive errors like mercy. 

Even if you are more than capable of maining her in diamond, you may not possess the ability to hard carry a bad team in this bracket with her. 

There was a post yesterday from a zen main stuck in this bracket as well with insane stats, but still stuck. Its not easy, you may need to mix in lucio zen mercy to get up a little over plat, you'll have less terribad teammate chance around there. 
 
Simple Ana Tips:

1. Don't use your grenade to heal people up in downtime.  Got a Rein with 10 HP but nothing is happening? Use your shots only.

2. There's a fight going on with multiple people involved? Throw the grenade in then.  It's to turn the tide of battle around, not just a tool to make healing less of a chore.  If you don't think the grenade is necessary to help a teammate win a fight you don't need to throw it.

3. A lot of healers have this ocd thing where they can't switch healing targets  until their current target is topped off.  If you have a 10hp genji and a 200hp Rein with his shield up, you can go ahead and switch off.  Sounds obvious but i see that mistake a lot.

4. There's a lot of good times for sleep dart.  Just have a reason for going for it, rather than "haha i can hit roadhog".  You might regret doing that 6 seconds later when Winston jumps you.
If you have the aim to play Ana at a diamond level you could just carry out of gold with DPS 
The progressive nerfs to Ana really took a toll on her carry potential since they've pushed her to becoming more reliant on her team than on herself.

From my experience, 50% win rate is actually *good*. According to last season's Overbuff stats, only GM players managed to get above 50% win rate on average. In all other tiers, the average win rate is under 50%. All other healers had much higher average win rates across all tiers.

The problem boils down to your teammates most of the time: One of Ana's most crucial game-changing abilities is her anti-heal, and unless you're playing in GM+, pretty much *nobody* ever acts upon them (unless they're a smurf).

If you find that your teammates aren't diving in on anti-healed targets, you'll pretty much get more value from just holding onto your Bionade to burst heal your teammates instead.

Over my experience, the only times I actually get assist cards at the end of a match is when I queue with my T500 friends. Whenever I don't, it's probably just healing cards at best. The reason is because they actually *know* what to do when an enemy is anti-healed. They never let it simply wear off.

---------------------

This is why Zenyatta has been so strong these past few seasons; you simply Discord whatever targets your teammates are attacking, and you'll easily get value out of that. Throughout the overall match, the amount of added damage you provide with your Discord is usually more than the amount of burst healing any enemy Mercy/Ana could provide.

Plus, his DPS potential is significantly better than Ana's since he has a large clip, fires faster, and has room for error because of his repeated fire instead of individual shots. As well, you *can* outheal Ana over the course of the match with his Harmony Orb as long as you bounce it around and prioritize properly.

Until Ana's buffed, there's pretty much no reason to use her over Zen unless you're solo healing or your second healer absolutely sucks. He's just sooo good right now. On Zen, I can easily do twice the amount I can do on Ana with half the effort...

My advice to you is: Play Ana if you enjoy playing as her (as I do). However, if you want to win more often, queue up in a group, or play Zen.

(I'm an ex-one-trick Ana main who has become a Zen main as well. Currently Master primarily queuing with T500 to T100 players.)
To add to this, if you're getting genjid and Winstond, i'd actually swithc to Mercy.   She can fly away to teammates who are far away.
Well yeah, these are beginner's tips

Question though, when do you feel nade should be used for self heal?
Thats true. But theres a reason why mercy sees almost no play at higher level whereas ana is the most popular main, even with dive as popular as it is.

In trying to figure out what they do differently, but when I watch streamers, they always have teammates to peel for them
If you're solo healing that's hard, but whenever i get below 50 health usually if the second healer isn't doing their job
I mean Mercy may not get a lot of love right now, but she is being reworked, and her rework is actually going to change that, but you aren't at that high level, so if you are having issues getting picked by flankers and winstons, you should switch to Mercy to get out quicker and evade said flankers. Sometimes the meta and what the pros play aren't what is going to help you in that tier. 
I don't know where you got that idea. Mercy sees plenty of play at the highest levels, why do you think r/competitiveoverwatch has been complaining about boosted Mercy mains for the past 6 months or whatever? 

Mercy actually has a 56% winrate at GM, while Ana only has a 51.6% winrate at GM. And the further you go down the ladder, the worse Ana's winrate becomes. It's only positive in GM, and at Gold, Ana's winrate is a miserable 44%. (according to Overbuff for the last month)

My biggest piece of advice is-- don't be an Ana main. She's not in a good spot right now. If you want to climb as a healer, play Zen or Mercy. If you don't want to play those heroes, pick a different class to main.
> But theres a reason why mercy sees almost no play at higher level whereas ana is the most popular main, even with dive as popular as it is.

This could not be more backwards. This may be part of your problem.

http://www.omnicmeta.com/2017/09/overwatch-hero-meta-report-pc-september.html

Coach me playing tracer (2130 SR)
https://youtu.be/xxi-_mQKGE4 Here is the Link to the video, I am playing on xbox one in gold, just wanted to get some coaching seeing what I'm doing right and wrong, please criticize me when I make a mistake. Thanks :) (EDIT at the end of the video I switch off to Lucio so that's why there is only that initial attack.)So this is on console, i'm not sure what the aiming situation is there.

You're not getting many headshots, and that's how tracer bursts down enemies.  Other things look good in your positioning, in that you're getting behind and finding people who are stragglers.
I am playing at about 60ish sensitivity, lowering it ever so slightly to get better at aim, I will agree my aim is not the best and is one of my main things I'm working on. Thanks for your feedback :)

There are smurfs everywhere on PS4! Was I carried out of Bronze?
They make themselves very obvious by either having extremely low levels but being way too experienced, or by literally having the word "smurf" in their names. I really don't want to be carried to higher ranks this way, as I consider it cheating, but what can I do about it? Can 1 smurf turn the tide of a battle easily?On average there will be more smurfs on the other team.  Your team has a 5 slots a smurf could take up, the other team has six.  If you got to silver it probably wasn't you getting carried.
If they're good enough yes. I've seen some of the early videos of the "Bronze to grandmaster" smurf videos and it's ridiculous how easy they make it look. 
It's hard to believe a smurf could land up in Bronze... They're throwers at most.
Most smurfs aren't that great for some reason a lot of low ranked players make smurfs. There are smurfs that can carry but I don't know how many would be playing in bronze-silver games and actually be trying
Some people make smurfs not to destroy lower ranked people, but to practice different characters in a competitive setting without ruining their main accounts sr. 
Not smurfs, alternate accounts.

Tips for improving hitscan aim?
I've never really been into competitive shooters before the last year or so and Overwatch is just my second FPS that I've really put hours into. I know aim is something that is developed over time, and have seen my own aim improve gradually. But as I'm ranking up, having better hitscan aim is getting more important for me. I use a mouse and sensitivity comfortable for me.  I have access to CS:GO and Aim Hero too, and I use the Practice Range often and Ana Bots thing occasionally. What are some aim drills that I can do to improve faster? And what would be preferable playing more McCree in deathmatch or using Aim Hero more?Back in my day we didn't have fancy aim hero and death match when overwatch came out. 

Stick with playing competitive and death match. 
If you're happy with your sens and dpi settings is recommend just grinding 8 player FFA 
A big things with hitscan is not having crazy dpi and sens.  A pro player will be somewhere around 800DPI and 5 in-game sensitivity.  It's not necessarily that, but it's also not 1600dpi and 10 in-game sensitivity either.  You might look into what settings you're using.  Besides that it's practice.
With Deathmatch now available, go play FFA as a warm up after the first 5-10mins in Practice Range.
I use 800dpi and 7 in game. I play a lot of genji so that works out for me. My tracking is alright, my flicking is inconsistent. 
You can set hotkeys and sensitivity settings for each hero separately. I go 800dpi and 6 sens except ana mccree and widow. I have them at 5 sens. Not a huge difference but I feel like it improves to hit shots more consistently while still being able to move quickly for quick flick sleep darts and stuff. Just find what works for you. 


My general rule of thump or fps games (with heavy background is csgo) is that you want your sens to be such that moving your mouse from left edge of mousepad to right side is a 180, assuming you have a larger size mousepad. Csgo pros always have a large mousepad and use their whole forearm to move the mouse. With genji you may want more because you make a lot of quick turns. But with a very aim dependant hero its best to have it a bit lower

Any tips or drills for a tracer main trying to climb out of diamond?
For the past two seasons I have been trying to main and climb as tracer but I feel like I'm a bit stuck where I am. I feel like my aim is sub par but my positioning has made up for it while climbing, but now I feel that I should be winning more duels and securing more kills than I currently am. Any aiming drills and tips would be greatly appreciated!Post vods. Tracer is more about timing and positioning vs aiming especially higher up you go. 

Looking for someone to play with to help me improve with my positioning.
Mainly referring to Tracer and Lùcio (my mains), but let's say for almost all the heroes. Not only positioning, I just want to learn a bit of everything that can make me improve and see where are my mistakes and how to fix them.

I'm level >400 and in this amount of playtime I haven't seen any big improvement aside my gamesense being slightly better and my aim slowly improving.
It'd help a lot to have some video of your game play to analyze. Otherwise, at best anyone can really give are general tips about where you want to be or how to handle very specific situations.
Your comp rank would probably be helpful so that people know what sort of advice to be giving you.

For Lucio:

 Bind jump to scroll wheel for sick wallrides. Bind it to actually scrolling in a direction, not pressing the wheel. Scrolling allows you to input many jumps very quickly, so if you're going faster than the set wallride speed, you can get a quick speed boost or maintain your speed by scrolling. 

 The direction you get the speed boost from wallriding depends on what direction you're inputting on the keyboard. Turn on backwards wallriding to get the most use out of this. 

Learn rollouts.

Instalock on ilios and lijiang tower. 

With wallriding, you can circle around the point on ilios well quickly and boop their whole team in. Abuse this. 

Lijiang garden is amazing for entry frags, but make sure you boost your team close to the point, since you don't want to get a double kill and get doomfisted a second later. 

Your speed boost can be used to quickly initiate but also to get injured teammates to a healer or peel for your healer. 

Don't spend all of your time on healing or on speedboosting. There's a time for each one. 

Abuse wallrides to gain height, travel quickly, or surprise people with boops from weird angles. 

If you boop a Lucio, try to get him as far from a wall as possible or he can recover. 

Learn how to recover from getting booped. Binding jump to scroll wheel helps a lot. 

Amp speed to make "buff" ults like genji's more effective (they buff the player so that's why I call them that) 

Sound barrier can block/hinder soldier, genji, bastion, and roadhog ults or be used as an initiation tool. If you have a zen, let him transcendence to block sustained damage ults like genji's and soldier's so you can save your sound barrier to prevent burst damage instakills or block a lot of damage from grav combos. 

Call the shots. You have the best initiation tool in the game at your fingertips. You decide when to go in. Make sure you group up before initiating. That being said, zen has discord, so if you have one, let him decide who to focus. You just take care of getting people into the fight or out of a dangerous ult. 

Your wallride is more than a fun little thing you can play around with. It's a positioning tool, a movement ability, a way to evade enemies and take less damage, and a setup for your boops. Learn wallriding. Learn rollouts. 

You don't have to set jump to right click but I like it better than the space bar since I don't like the noise the space bar makes. 

Feel free to pm me if you have any questions. /r/luciomains is also a good resource for Lucio mains and /r/luciorollouts will show you good rollouts you can use to get to places very quickly. 

The fact is, I'm currently unable to record as I'm using a low-end PC that for some magic reason can run Overwatch with everything at its minimum for a good (but with some rare FPS drops) 70fps. Recording may mean making it completely lag. I'll be home in about a week with my PC and that will give me the chance to record. I was wondering even if playing together or spectating could help.
I feel there's something weird with binding jump to scroll wheel, if I was wallriding on a flat surface wouldn't I lose the grip as soon as I stop scrolling?
Tried using the jump on right click, but it feels kind of weird. I'm used too much to the default settings, I'll try using the wheel to jump though.
Oh also I'm in silver, around SR1600.
Yeah, you could probably find someone(s) who would be willing to work with you that way. Might have to look for a coach or grab a higher ranking friend.

Genji help
Could anyone give me some tips on using Genji? I would appreciate it a lot. If you give me some info on who I should be targeting when I flank and some aim tips. Thanks1. Don't jump someone without thinking. Plan out who you can kill, how you're going to kill them, and who in the immediate area can and will try to stop you.
2. Think of your damage as in parts. Think of shurikens, dash, and melee all as separate sources and think of how you can combo them to deal the most damage to your target.
3. Don't swift strike offensively if it's not leading into blade or for a kill confirm
4. When flanking always go for the easiest kill (zen retreating for pack or an oblivious widow). Never try and jump into the middle of a team to kill a support by yourself, that is what will put you back in spawn.
1. Use a crosshair reticle that allows you to see your shurikens easily. I used to wonder why I couldn't hit shots with genji, and it's because I couldn't see them.

2. Spam at tanks to get dragonblade fast. Really Genji is all about his ult. Don't be afraid to pop it to kill 2 people, that's a teamfight won. 

3. Try to use deflect and swift strike reactively not proactively.
With regards to aiming,  I find a lot of players aiming with the animation if that makes sense. What I mean by that is, players will wait for the left click animation to finish first before aiming again. Try to track the target AS you are left clicking, makes it far easier to hit.
Thanks a lot for the advice
Genji's To Do List:
1. Destroy healers
2. Bully DPS trying to shoot your team
3. Stay the fuk away from tanks, but also annoy them as much as possible with shurikens to get juicy ult charge.
Thanks

Zarya Bubble + Deflect Interaction?
I'm sure this has been answered before, but what happens if you bubble a genji while he's deflecting? Will projectiles be deflected, absorbed, or both?Deflected. It's actually kind of a annoying for Zarya. Deflect's hitbox is so obnoxiously large that it extends past the big bubble in most directions.

Cheap optical vs expensive laser mouse
Hello, I've posted this to a different subreddit but I wanted to get as many opinions as possible, and since I mostly play Overwatch, I figured this would be an okay place to post. If not let me know!

A year or so ago, I bought [this mouse](https://www.amazon.com/Programmable-ZhiZhu-Thunderbird-Tasten-Gaming/dp/B00X5I2F8Y/). It was about $25 and it's been serving me pretty well. However recently I decided to upgrade to the Roccat Nyth, and received it a couple days ago. It's not a bad mouse perse, I just need to get used to the new button layout. However, I'm also having some doubts about it, and wondering whether or not I should return it.

The main reason for this is that the previous mouse I had was an optical mouse, and the Nyth is laser. I always hear that laser is worse than optical...but what if the optical mouse was cheaper than the laser? Does that mean the laser mouse will be better anyway? Or is it really mainly gimmicks and a "brand name" I'm paying for?

I've only had the mouse for a couple days now and I don't think I've noticed any performance difference. Just that I have to get used to the new button bindings which does indeed hamper my performance, but I suspect that if I stick it out and continue using this mouse, I'll get used to it. But in the long run, is it really worth it?

IDK, probably a very subjective question that doesn't really have a real answer, but I just wanted to hear other people's opinions. I have about a month to return the mouse so I have time to think about it.Laser vs. Optical isn't that simple. Laser is mostly infamous because the latest Avago came with inconsistent acceleration. The Nyth uses a Philips Twin Eye sensor, I don't know which, I don't know whether it has acceleration or suffers from the z-axis bug (which means the sensor moves an irregular distance if you pick it up and put it down.)  It likely works best on a hardpad.

In the end yes, the Nyth is probably better than that cheap mouse. But its sensor is not the best you can get and maybe it's not even close. It's a huge mouse with a lot of unnecessary things and weight which makes it suboptimal for a FPS game - and those are a bigger factor than the sensor here.
Why keep it if it doesn't feel better than the mouse you already have?
While optical sensors are usually better than laser sensors, a laser sensor can be better than an optical sensor, especially if the optical sensor is several years older than the laser. In general though, unless the sensor in one mouse does something noticeably bad, there's no reason to replace it.

In my case, I found that my older optical mouse would "spin out" if I made too fast of a motion. This became a problem when I went to low mouse sensitivity, because it prevented me from doing fast 180 turns. Then I upgraded to a newer laser mouse, which didn't have that problem. So the laser mouse was better for me, but only because it addressed a specific issue I had.

If you don't have any issues like that, then upgrading just for the sensor is pretty pointless. However, you might find an upgrade for mouse shape/grip/weight, which can be worth it even if there is no sensor improvement.

Finally, it looks like the Roccat Nyth was intended for MMOs, which is a pretty different use case than FPS games. Typically MMO mice emphasize comfort/buttons, both of which aren't very important for an FPS game with matches that last only 20 minutes and only a couple of abilities. Something like the ZOWIE EC2A is more the type of mouse FPS players tend to use.
if you are going to buy a non cheapo mouse then go for the 3366 optical sensor which is the best on the market atm and not insanely pricey. logitech g403 and the pricier ones b/c of added features are the g502 and g900
In general, optical will have better tracking on a clean uniform surface with little to no negative acceleration, and laser will track on most surfaces but have pretty bad negative acceleration. 
Idk if Logitech has a newer version now, but the G502 is fucking amazing. It was THE mouse to have for fps gaming for a while. Has like 5000+ dpi but its kind of unnecessary, I keep mine at 800. I believe its laser but I honestly dont remember, theres other reasons to buy mice nowadays.  Has 5 buttons, 3 on side and 2 on top to the left of left clicker. Makes it easy to just have Mic button on mouse and stuff. Side buttons arent as necessary for a game like overwatch, I used them excessively for dota 2 though. Like one is set for my ultimate, one for quick melee, and other side for voice chat. Other 2 are just quick emote and hello lol. If you find yourself fucking up hotkeys on the keyboard makes it super convenient to have them on the mouse. 


https://www.google.com/shopping/product/15256722194565034783?lsf=seller:8438988,rt:2&prds=oid:12707885294999531107&q=logitech+gaming+mouse+g502&hl=en&ei=lYqyWdXCHevLjwT50JuwAQ&lsft=gclid:CjwKCAjw_8jNBRB-EiwA96Yp1pJRCfV_fh1zvl0xXecCjnr-nk2xYwZ2dITYjHEOrdQnglve89h2yBoCv80QAvD_BwE


Ok I just looked it up and its only $50 right now and that's incredibly worth it. I paid 50 for it on sale a few years ago it was like 80 when it came out. But it looks like most the other top end Logitech mice are wireless which I'm sure they're super legit, I have the g700s as well and I don't notice hardly any input lag playing cs go with it, but I like wireless when it comes to competitve fps. If you're cool with spending 50 on a mouse then get it and dont hesitate, you wont regret it.
The sensor is a twin-tech laser sensor R1 according to the box. You can actually modify the distance the mouse cursor moves via the driver -- I've set it to extra low so it barely moves at all.

The weight and size of the mouse feel a non-issue to me since it is actually very similar to the cheap mouse, which I've gotten used to. And I like the side-buttons since I can bind shift, e, q, and v to them, as well as push-to-talk. That being said, do you have any recommendations for a lighter mouse?
There are a bunch of mice with top tier sensors so it comes down to personal preference of size and shape. Many people love Zowie mice although they're using an outdated sensor. Personally I love Logitech, I use a G PRO (Same thing as the cheaper G203 basically). The g403 and its variants g603, g703 are ergonomic. There's the new Steelseries 310s, Rival and Sensei. The Ninox Venator is very light and feels great but has quality control issues and is very thin. The Nixeus Revel has the popular Sensei shape. Then there's the Dream Machines DM PRO S, Roccat Kone, actually let me stop, too many to name. 

I suggest you first see if your hand is small/medium/large, find out how you grip your mouse and then go to a electronics store to fondle a few mice just to see what feels comfortable. Once you have the general idea of shape you can look at mice that are similar. Personally I like ambidextrous small mice, maybe you'll like ergonomic large mice with a big back hump. 

Edit: Most FPS oriented mice come with two side buttons. I only know of the G402 with 4 and the G502 but that one is pretty heavy again.


Going on a "no-ability" diet
I'm gonna go on a "no ability" diet.

For the past few months I've really became too dependent on McCree's abilities, which makes me use them way too much and so they're never available when I need them the most.

I'm gonna try to go for a week playing FFA only on McCree without using any abilities and see how that pans out for me.

Going full-on "GoldenEye" old school right hereWell what exact abilities you overuse on Cree when you out of range? Bang is only close range, and Roll mainly is just a QoL ability that will not affect your gameplay as much as good aim, dont think not using that will impact anything that much.  
If this works out I might try Reinhardt next.

*Just a man and his hammer, versus the world…*
You know how you call players that go on a "no ability" diet?

DISABLED AHAHAHAHAHHAHA * gets shot *
This is weird and sounds gimmicky. Try just focusing on what the actual problem is which is you needing to use your abilities better. 

Not good at abilities-practice

Not good at abilities-don't practice them??? Nope this is a bad idea. 
Lol i did that with pharah. Shift unbound
I play zarya when I need a good lesson in cooldown management. You will be punished for pushing those ability buttons Willy-nilly, comrade!
I've been playing Junkrat in death match with my concussion mine unbound, to both practice landing shots directly with my grenades and to become less reliant on just tossing out my concussion mine whenever something startles me. It's quite an interesting experience, and I've been doing surprisingly better than I would have expected for having no mines. Hopefully you'll find it helpful with McCree to.
Tho you're right to an extent, McCree's most important objectives, which is taking out tracers, genjis, and even reapers, are all close range fighters that have one or more ways to negate your abilities.

If I can reliably deal with them without relying on my abilities, it'll make me a much better player overall.

Hence why the FFA is such a good practice range, it's littered with those heroes.
Wow good luck..
Lol I'm kind of with you on the McCree one. Not sure how this would ever help though...
It sounds like you need to practice and learn better baiting techniques and/or patience to call out their abilities so they can't negate Flash or anything. You'll probably discover that if you don't use his abilities because that's kind of a large part of baiting out the enemy abilities so you can use yours.

Some general tips though; working on your aim will help tremendously. If you can drop any of those 3 you mentioned anywhere near death in your first couple of shots then they will panic Deflect, Wraith, Blink/Recall just to save themselves and try to escape. From there you can give chase, FB, and then finish them off. Or if they haven't received any healing you can probably just finish them off with another shot anyway.
Sounds reasonable, wish you success in achieving Cree Super Sayan:) 
>It sounds like you need to practice and learn better baiting techniques and/or patience to call out their abilities so they can't negate Flash or anything

And that's why I'm doing this too, I'd spam my abilities so much it became a bad habit; so this diet should also cleanse me of that.
Adversely, it could also create new bad habits of never using your abilities when you should. I'm not suggesting it's a bad idea, mind you. I'm just saying be aware of where it can lead you if you're not careful. Abilities are a necessary part of the game. Don't force yourself to neglect them completely and habituate that kind of play style.
yeah you could develop the bad happen of holding onto your cooldowns for too long and instead of using 3 flash bangs you only use 1 b/c you were too cautious. But practicing headshotting without bang is good practice, but you can practice that whenever bang is on cooldown lol

Building up my Hero Pool, any advice?
Hi there, I'm straight silver, atm. Current Mains are McCree, Soldier and Zarya. I'm thinking about flexing a bit more to help my teams be more solid, if above heroes are already taken. I have fun playing Winston and have some time on Ana (but she's a tough one).

Being generally open to getting gud at any hero, which would you guys n gals advise to round out my pool in S6?Reinhardt! If it were up to me (people probably should be glad that it's not) then everyone would be required to put in at least 10 hours on Reinhardt before they play comp. Learning how to play Reinhardt not only means that you know how to play Reinhardt, but you also know how to play _with_ Reinhardt.

It also changes your perspective of a lot of things, and that change of perspective broadens your thinking about the game. Like, Overwatch is not an FPS. It's a game that has FPS _in it_, but there's a lot of other stuff going on. Reinhardt, for example, is playing Street Fighter in the midst of all this shooting. Footsies, spacing, mixups, reads, bait, traps. You're getting the hang of Reinhardt when you can time a firestrike at a deflecting Genji such that he won't dash out early for fear of failing to deflect the firestrike, but the deflect _just barely_ doesn't last long enough to actually do the job. And the thing is that even though Reinhardt's entire game is made up of this stuff, it's also important to other characters -- there's so much more going on than aim.
Play Mystery Heroes! I discovered my affinity for Zarya and Zenyatta there.
Flex into Zen because his positioning is similar to S76 and he provides the much needed defensive ultimate for the team to counter the tac-visors and dragonblades.

Get one main tank to flex, like Winston that you already do. Ana is hard to learn and it's easy to play her wrong, I would be more careful with that one.

Lucio if you like being the team leader. Just play him brawl style and you should rise pretty fast.
Try out some tanks & supports.

Even if you're not ever going to play tanks or supports up to a 'main' standard, in those times where the rest of your team have already instalocked dps, you'll probably be much more useful filling with a tank or support that the comp could really do with, instead of adding yet another dps.

Learning the other role types can also give you some insight on how to better support them (or defeat them) when you're back on your dps mains.

Edit: sorry missed the zarya part. Give rein and orisa a try for filling as main tank.
The first 3 heroes I learnt were Soldier, Lucio and Rienhardt. It gave me a solid foundation to work with and after 250hrs I can play most heroes. Now I mainly play Lucio, Zarya, Genji and Ana in competitive. I would highly advise you to learn 1-2 heroes from every class. Heroes I'd recommend would be Winston, Lucio, Pharah and probably Torb (for those annoying defenses).
One of the things I like doing is to start a match with my weak character, stick with it for the first half, and then switch to my main.
If you're going to solo queue a bit, learn sym.  Watch videos on smart turret locations and develop it into your own strategy.  I've jumped from ~2000 to currently a solid 2500+ solo queueing.  Watch some SteveO YouTube videos where he carries ~50+ games in a row before a loss.  Also, only shield gen at this level.  Huge difference.


within tiers in order how useful, dont even bother with not listed heroes unless you wanna learn a sub optimal hero pool

winston, dva, zarya, rein

zen,  lucio, ana

soldier, tracer, genji, pharah, sombra, reaper



"Overwatch is not an FPS. It's a game that has FPS in it"

Couldn't have been said better.
Not to mention Rein paired with any other tank is a fantastic duo if you're communicating.
This ^
I discovered mine with Widow and Zen, too.
Oh yeah, that's right!
Thanks. So maybe I'll take granny outside for a walk more often.

I think about complementing my pool for different maptypes. Any opinion about this?
Interesting strategy. I'll try that one.
I've heard that ana & zen are better suited to longer lane type maps, lucio & mercy to more close-quarter ones. In terms of their healing kit that seems obvious. Personally though I tend to lean picks more towards what fits your comp best or gives the enemy comp a harder time to deal with. Preferring ana & zen for the more open maps seems a little paradoxical to me when they've no mobility to move around them efficiently. At least when on defence, the walk of shame from spawn is an especial liability with no movement.
Ana and zen benefit from similar positioning to mcree; they want to have long sight lines and they live in the backline behind tanks; zen will be a bit weird given he's projectile and not hitscan but his damage at range onto an orbed target is similar to McCree's. 

Although dva will be nerfed soon she's a great tank to learn. Winston is fantastic but you need to play him very carefully and with your supports in mind. 
I turned my phone off for a while and then back on and this was the first thing I read and I was very confused. 

I was GM the last few seasons, and I highly recommend playing any of the healers besides Mercy and any of the tanks besides Roadhog. 
Exactly my experience so far. Thanks for the solid info! I think I had a natural drift towards a pretty samey hero pool that's not useful in all circumstances. With Win there should be a more complete palette.

Questions about Tracer
Hey everyone this is my first time posting on this sub, but I've been frequently viewing for a while. Before I start asking my questions I wanted to let you know that I'm a Tracer main going between low diamond and high platinum with almost 100 hours on her. I also watch a lot of the overwatch tournaments analyzing pro tracers. When I'm calm I usually have really good tracking, but the main issue I have is movement.

Questions:
1) How should I play as Tracer? Should I be aggressive and always in the enemy back line or try to be passive and stay with the team. I ask because tracers like SoOn always stays with his team, while Sinatraa always plays super aggressive.

2) How should you move as Tracer? Since a lot of the time in tournaments or watching other tracers the camera is in first person, so you don't get to see how they look when engaging into a fight. To clarify should you AD spam, crouch spam, jump, etc. 

3) How do you deal with good dps that can aim? I often try to engage but always without fail I get  tapped by a McCree or 76 which forces me to back out. 

4) How should you handle 1v1s? Mainly against McCrees and Soldier.

A lot of your questions are situational. You'll find some good answers to most of them in one of the many guides floating around the sub. [This one](https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/6piyn5/cheers_love_a_tracer_guide_wbc/) is a good start.
Lower ranked than you, gold, love tracer. I like to switch between flanks and with the team. Once someone is looking for me on the flanks I stick with the team until I start to see everyone focused forward. Then I flank again. It works well Enough to give me the jump on healers a bit.

Also, maybe due to my lower rank, I've had success with double - triple blinking into a really low health healer in backlines then recalling out back into my team. Even if I don't pick them it really gets them worried. 
Here's what I've learned from watching streamers and tourney play: 

There are generally 3 tracer modes you switch between during a full game: 

1. Flank Tracer: flank tracer is often how you start matches. Head into the backline and put pressure on supports to draw enemy frontline away from main fight. Here your objective is more to annoy and stay alive than to convert kills. The thing to avoid here is feeding by damaging tanks that will just get healed up by supports. You want to pressure the tank line by attacking supports and causing peel. The more you annoy supports the more you take support focus away from the fight and force positional errors. 


2. Dive buddy: if you're running tracer alongside dive dps like genji or doomfist, and/or with dive tanks who are playing aggressively then you want to flank via the buddy system. Watch your dive buddies, go into the backline and callout support positioning so that you and genji/Winston can get in and 2v1 a support then get out. Communication is the most important thing here; if your team isn't calling dive targets but running a dive comp take initiative and call dive targets yourself so that you give your dive buddies the info needed to jump in.  If they're not communicating then watch how they dive and jump in with them. 


3. Team Tracer: this is the mode you play once team fights break out. Here you want to push in to the left or right of the fight and Cleanup supports while they're distracted by the ruckus. Your main goal here is to cleanup supports before they can escape, reduce the sustain of the enemy team, and cleanup damage onto any critical health enemy you can find. Stay just far enough on the outskirts of the fight that any attempt to focus you results in the enemy team moving out of position. 
Most of these are really situational. 

If you feel that you can get away with being aggressive, then I'd say go for it as a Tracer in the enemy backlines is annoying for almost all heroes to deal with.  

AD spam and crouch spam are both very effective due to Tracers small hitbox, but jumping makes it easier to hit her. 

If the enemy hitscan are good, try to avoid them and target healers or weak targets whilst the dps are distracted by your team.

Personally, against a soldier I will just try to burst them down if I feel that they are not good enough to hit me, but if they are good then I'll try to force their healing station and then disengage before returning to kill them when they are more vulnerable, but watch out for the helix rocket. With Mccree you need to bait the flashbang and then melt him before he can headshot/finish you. You can also blink into/through him and then instantly blink backwards to disorientate him to avoid being killed by a lucky headshot, but be careful as you'll only have one blink left.
If you can, sneak behind the enemy and try to pick a healer. Can't? Recall and dash back to safety. For movement, crouch spamming predicting headshots, jump once in a while (Over jump and you're easy to track, barely jump and you're just gonna be predictable). And try to ADS strafe randomly. 
As for mccree or soldier, it depends. You can to predict their flash snd rockets, and once those are out they should be an easy kill if you can dash well enough to confuse them. And when it comes to aim, sometimes you will get out played, simply cause they could hit that one shot/helix on you, or predict and flash/rocket you.
4) How should you handle 1v1s? Mainly against McCrees and Soldier.

Soldier: Shoot him. If he heals, with too much hp for you to kill him in the heal -> Run away.
Otherwise -> Shoot him more.

If you run away you can kill him after his heal aura is gone and you know it is on CD. I guess you should not get too close to make it harder to hit rockets as well.

McCree: Bait the nade -> Shoot him. If he has insane aim, it might get tricky but keep moving and shooting.

I am also Tracer main, mid plat. Maybe you already know this since you are better  than me :)
McCree you want to bait the flash bang before engaging, pretty much same for soldier's rockets they are devastating
1. It depends how effectively you are able to pick off the enemy backline, both in terms of mechanically and how well the enemy team responds to what you're doing. Both styles have merit and you should be able to switch between them at will.

2. You almost always want to engage through some sort of a flank. First fights you want to try to engage from the side and attempt to lock down a specific area to give your team space. Strafing with some crouch spam is typically what you will do, attempting to keep them from even looking at you is even better.

3/4. You just need to be aware of where they are and what their cooldowns are. USE YOUR BLINKS 1 AT A TIME. 

Avoid 1v1s with soldiers altogether unless you can get a jump on him or if you know that he doesn't have his healing or helix. 

McCree you just need to play outside of his flashbang range, then strafe and crouch spam. If you can bait out his flashbang then it is a very easy fight for you to win.
Triple blink from high ground, stick, recall. Love that stuff, the healer you just killed has no idea where you came from and went in the millisecond you stuck a bomb on them

Winston ULT help appreciated.
So in short and as the title says I need help making the most out of the big guys ult. I consider myself to be a decent Winston player all things considered but as soon as I get an ult I find I just don't seem to achieve much. 

Anyone have any tips or people I could check out on youtube to get a better understanding of what I should be doing? You can also use it to rush to the point if you died during overtime. 

Winston's ult builds pretty fast, so it can be okay to use it as a life line if/when you dive and your team doesn't follow up. 
Winst ult is reactive

Contesting point for your team to get back(don't ult if it's not gonna be end of game and it's just you vs 2+dps, they will melt you ffs, you're just feeding at that point)

If you do fuck up an ult it's better to run away to your team bc at least you don't feed 3 of the enemy ults. (Some heroes only need 1k dmg to ult). 

DO focus 1 hero less than 300 HP, the less mobile the better. Just hit them into a wall.

DO JUMP ON PEOPLE + HIT when they are backed into a wall (50 + 40 dmg instantly)

DO ult for fight winning environmental kills. I am uploading an example to my yt today if u wanna see more about what I mean

DO jump(aim for the back of the enemy line)>bubble (over middle of enemy line)> melee+land> Use tesla> time ult before you die> hit enemy down to team

DO jump straight up and onto them if no walls to hit people with
there are different usages for winston ult, winstons ult is what makes good winstons good winstons because its the hardest part about him imo

first of you all theres the contest ult, often on koth(other modes too but less because you dont lose %) you have to contest with your ult. staying alive as long as you can to get as many % out as you can. if your team can regroup fast or the fight is still going on you can actually comeback. you wanna jump very high up and touch point only shortly so you are harder to hit.

most of the the time you will have to use your ult when you are about to die. so when you reach around 100hp you can press ult and escape and maybe get some kills

while your ult is very disruptive you can try to get some kills by pushing people againsts walls and off the map
Winston's ULT is always so interesting, because its use varies so much depending on the situation.

First, like one other user pointed out: his ULT is mostly used for disrupting enemy positioning and strategy.  When this is the objective, you absolutely have to make sure that you are ULTing when the rest of your team are engaged in the fight or are pursuing an objective.

Of course, there are a ton of different ways to disrupt the team.  Here are just a few examples of things that I try to do:
(1)	(My personal favourite) If the enemy has a very persistent Reinhart, and my team has been struggling to get through his shield, I pop my ULT from behind enemy lines and knock him way the hell behind my enemy lines.  This immediately places the enemy Reinhart in a dangerous position and/or forces their Mercy to move out of position to support him.  This is applicable to Orisa (if  she doesn’t fortify) as well.

(2)	Knocking a Junkrat/Soldier/Reaper way the hell out of the fight – this alleviates a lot of the damage that your team has to deal with.

(3)	General scatter – popping the ULT while in the middle of the enemy and swinging your arms around in a circle to force the enemy into scattered positions.

(4)	Scattering healers – basically you want to make it very difficult for the healers to do their job.  Mercy, Ana, and Zen will have a lot of trouble getting back into position to support their teammates while you are knocking them about.
With this strategy, the general mindset is that you want to single-handedly create “5v3” or “5v2” situations for your team without having to commit to getting the picks.  

Trying to get picks is very situational is dependent on if you happen to corner an immobile hero (Ana, Soldier, Mcree, etc.).  I generally don’t bother too much with the picks, since most of the time if I am disrupting correctly then the rest of my team can get the picks.   Same goes for environmental kills, since they often are very situational.

Lastly, SOMETIMES it is worth using the ULT to challenge the point if you know your team is right behind you. DON’T do this if your team literally just died.  In one of my recent games, I made a quick decision to ULT since I knew that our SYMM was close and that she would be putting down a teleporter soon.  I ULTed, bought her some time, ultimately died, then our team showed up to contest the point and win. Again, this was extremely situational.

Good luck with your games, man.  Winston is easily one of my favourite characters! :D
Note that your DPS when ulting is not significantly higher than your regular Tesla cannon output. (Lower, if you account for multitarget damage with the Tesla cannon and the fact that your ult melee has a knockback.) Ulting won't help you take out turrets or superchargers or Symmetra ults any faster, so don't ult and then focus down these built items unless you're about to die _and_ the item is the best target. Otherwise, you're better off just dropping bubble and zapping.

Do remember to use your leap. It's on reduced cooldown for a reason. If you just run and swing your meaty arms, you're _super_ easy to hit and kill, even with the 1000 HP. Winston stands upright and moves at his standard slow and predictable speed when he ults, unless he uses the jump pack. Don't forget about jumping straight up/down or using the short and extra-long leaps (forward and backward movement while leaping) to be less predictable and create more chaos. Do try to land on people if you can.

Winston's ult can be quite good for solo contesting a KotH point that your team is already in control of, to buy percentage and give your team time to respawn and come back. Otherwise, though, I wouldn't use it if my teammates aren't around to follow up on the disruption and secure kills. Aside from environmental kills, you're not going to be getting a ton of rage kills on your own.

Finally, while it _seems_ like it should be a good fight-opener, it's best saved for the middle of a fight to turn the tables and secure the fight. For one thing, as others have noticed, the health fill-up is more valuable if you've already taken damage. Secondly, it's much harder to focus down an ulting Winston when you're already dealing with his whole team up in your face. Finally, the disruption effect is _much_ more valuable when the other team is already committed to the fight, particularly if you're on defense and the enemy team has the luxury of just backing off and disengaging. Even if you're on attack though, starting with Winston ult means the other team's DPS can just reposition to avoid the disruption. Much harder to reposition effectively in the middle of the fight when a bazillion things are already happening. 
You can also use it to boop that bey-blade reaper away from the middle of your team, jump on an ulting mccree to get him out of his position, bother the enemy soldier that just ulted, he'll lose ult time while getting back to the fight
Miro, Knoxxx are a few. The purpose of Winston's ultimate is to disrupt the enemy's position and strategy. Optimally you'd be knocking people off cliffs, but when you can't do that just hop and knock people around, especially important targets like an ulting 76  or McCree
This.
Expanding for the Ulting McCree is only if you can cap point thru it, (remember 100dmg/sec of locked on, or whatever it is) or if u can bodyblock it and ur jump+bubble are on cooldown. Or if u can knock him out of sight. Some McCree will notice what ur doing and just shoot b4 u hit them away so if he's been up there for a while bodyblocking is your best bet for saving someone 

Advanced Ana movement and positioning tips from a player who has played Ana since S2
So here are some tips about Ana that most players truly don't know and it's NOT just the quickscope mechanic that everyone already knows. 

These tips are fairly advanced and are my favorite tips teach a Diamond/Masters level Ana to hit GM. 

Tip #1: **Practice your ADAD Crouch strafe while scoped in and use flicks to make your movement annoying to hit even when scoped in.**

So this might seem like a simple concept as Ana, but once you've scoped in, you quite literally are the easiest thing for Widowmaker, Hanzo, and Tracers/Genjis to take advantage of right? 
 
If you practice rhythmically tapping strafe keys and crouch while scoped in and still be able to those flicks in rhythm, then it makes your movement more unpredictable just by a fraction. And that fraction can make all the difference. 

Tip #2: **Minimize the use of your scope when you know that there's snipers/flankers on the enemy team that are really good.** 

Your scope (despite tip #1) still makes you easy as fuck to hit. If there's a very good Tracer/Widowmaker they will still abuse this, which brings me to my tip #3 and #4:

ninja edit: also minimize jumping vs pressure pls for obvious reasons. 

**#3: Walking into your team under pressure from flankers**

If you feel pressured from a Tracer player in the back line, you should ask your Lucio to peel and walk INTO your team not away from them. Being isolated versus a flanker is a BIG no-good. You should NOT try to 1 v 1 Tracer most of time. You should have the tools to not back down from a 1 v 1 from a pure mechanical perspective but you don't NEED to take that fight because that's not your job. If you truly have to 1 v 1, then commit. But if you can walk into your team and get a peel, that's ideal. 

**Tip #4: Rotating the flank against pressure**

There is a specific kind of positioning that hitscan players, esp. McCree and Ana take that is different from Soldier, who has the ability to be more aggressive with his positioning since he can kite more effectively.

I call it "rotating the flank" but you might refer to it as something else. It's essentially when you KNOW that the enemy team will aggress, either with a dive, or ultimates, or basically any kind of pressure, instead of being at the back of your team, you can move rotate to the side of your team, and sometimes (not often) be the front line if the pressure in the back line is too much. 

Why do you do this? Because if Genji/Winston are looking for you in the backline, and Genji has his blade out looking for kills, dodging him in the front line might not be a bad idea. After all, then you're playing against like D.va, Zen and Lucio if they have three in the backline, in which case you're asking the Zen to make a play and dink you before you rotate again and escape.  

The idea is this: you wanna go where there's the least amount of pressure, even if that means being a pressure situation where you're less than ideally comfortable. There is no ideal comfort in such a fast paced game. There's levels of pressure. Find that minimal amount of pressure. 

Against snipers, it's the same concept. Be where they're NOT looking. If you're around the hotel on King's Row, Widomaker can't see you. If you mix up your positioning, then Tracer can't find you. 

Sneaky Ana is best Ana. 

**Tip #5: Sleep darts have a huge timing and game sense element to them** 

Practicing sleep darts is good in drills, but that doesn't reflect how players will really move in games, but more importantly, doesn't give you a feel for the TIMING of engagements. 

The best way to hit sleeps against Winston/Genji/Tracer honestly is just know when the engagement is coming and be ready for it. Also to mechnically solid ofc. 

**quick mechanical tip (Tip #5.5?):** One of the best times to sleep Winston is when he's in midair. He's got such a huge hitbox that makes it easy to land that shot if you just watch his momentum. Once he's on the ground, that bubble and D.va can make your life shitty. 

**Tip #6: Know the mechanical prerequisites for playing a strong Ana and switch if it's not working:**

75% accuracy average. 70-75% for DPS heavy comps (3+ DPS), 80-85% for tank heavy comps (3+ tanks). 

I was downvoted into oblivion in a different thread for suggesting this but ask effective, high elo Ana players what their accuracy is: it's exactly the above. 

You should very RARELY miss shots as Ana unless under pressure. And even then, you should be patient and hit the shots you know you can hit. Which brings me to my last tip:

**Tip #7: Patience, above all else.** 

Patience to your teammates, patience to yourself to hit those shots, and patience to blizz for dropping from 70 frames last patch (seriously blizz i was getting 200 fps last patch and now I'm getting 130?).

You'll get SR if you play at a high level. So don't worry about bad DPS, or feeding tanks, or anything really. Focus on playing at a high level, and don't take the victim support mentality that /r/Overwatch loves to promote and walk around with. 

Edit: 

**Tip #8: Find windows to DPS.**

When everyone's healed, DPS. (Duh.)

You have one of the best final blow guns in the game since you have no falloff, 60 DPS. So that means that when Mercy on the enemy team is 1HP, DPS. 

One timing to watch for is if Genji blades and is able to cut someone once, esp. Mercy: then if you hit her with one shot she dies, or I guess if Tracer forces her out into the sky in general. 

Thanks for this. What maps do you like her on best?
I'm an Ana main but I never use the quickscope mechanic. Is it really that necessary.
> 75% accuracy average. 70-75% for DPS heavy comps (3+ DPS), 80-85% for tank heavy comps (3+ tanks).
I was downvoted into oblivion in a different thread for suggesting this but ask effective, high elo Ana players what their accuracy is: it's exactly the above.
You should very RARELY miss shots as Ana unless under pressure. And even then, you should be patient and hit the shots you know you can hit. Which brings me to my last tip:

Isn't this entirely dependent on your SR though? I'm in plat and anytime I'm above 66% I consider that to be pretty good. I would imagine silver Ana's would be well-below that. 
I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/anamains] [Advanced Ana movement and positioning tips from a player who has played Ana since S2 (crosspost to \/r\/OverwatchUniversity)](https://np.reddit.com/r/AnaMains/comments/6yfjcg/advanced_ana_movement_and_positioning_tips_from_a/)

[](#footer)*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*

[](#bot)
>You'll get SR if you play at a high level. 

....and win.

But good points.  My issue with playing Ana has always been rarely using my scope.  If the opposing team senses I'm there, I get pounced on.  I can usually make it back to the team/use a grenade, but they often are slow to/reluctant to assist.  I have seen teammate Roadhogs and DVAs walk right past me while I'm jumping around and trying to avoid a Tracer.

I would say, though, that Ana's grenade is something that needs further consideration.  When to use it offensively versus defensively can make the difference in capturing a point.
Just to add on tip #5. I can't remember who said it (I think it was Dummy, former NRG player) that aiming sleeps is almost secondary to knowing where the enemy is coming from. Since the shot has a cast time (slight delay after hitting shift), you almost shoot first, aim after.
If the enemy team is running many barriers or D.va + Winston do you think it would be better to switch to Mercy instead of Ana?

 I feel like i would be way more useful as Mercy in certain aituations but don't play her out of pride. I play Zen and Lucio as well but Zen+Lucio isn't enough heals for random matchmaking teams who have little coordination.

I want to play Ana as often as possible but the meta hasn't been kind to grandma :(
As someone playing against ana (genji, tracer), I need a little advice on playing against an Ana.

I usually find it easy to come up when she's scoped and land headshots, but if she's aware im near, it's almost impossible to 1v1 her. I find her hitbox is quite strange.

What im trying to get at is, what are the key things that you notice when a flanker is coming for you that you really can't deal with?
Also if you wanna get your accuracy up on squishes try practicing your aim in Ana Paintball! This helped get my accuracy into the 80% range and it's lots of fun.
Also be aware of when it's better to noscope heal rather than scoped.  The tracers on your shots instantly give away your position and there's a lot of times it's better to noscope heal from a bit of a distance just to ensure your team retains a healer during a fight.  

I also don't really agree with the accuracy thing, if your team is staying alive and winning that's what matters.  Don't stop playing Ana if you're winning games or enjoying her because you're not hitting a certain % of shots.  100% of 200 shots and 67% of 300 shots are the same thing, it's important to remember that.  I find it's more about timing and game sense than just pure stats when playing Ana
Should add a little note to Tip 6 that 144 Hz monitors are pretty much required for high accuracy stats. It's not surprising for players on 60 Hz monitors to have 10-20% less average accuracy on both stats, even if they play well.

The majority of GM+ players use 144 Hz monitors, and many Master players do as well.
Anas that run away from their team make me rage. Walk into tanks and chunk a nade on floor when being flanked. You will insta turn the tables.
>(seriously blizz i was getting 200 fps last patch and now I'm getting 130?).

Are you sure this isn't a driver issue? Cause it was for me. (AMD)
what rank are you yourself?
Is your scope toggle or hold?
imo, under Diamond, most of the time Mercy is more beneficial than Ana
I have been practising ana in QP as i want to be able to flex to a main healer if needs be,i like her kit it definatly can win fights/games on its own.My accuracy is solid with the rifle,im getting confident with the sleep dart and figuring out when to use it and when keep it.

The nade tho i just dunno how to use and get proper value consitantly,im trying to not use it to heal myself unless im super low (50hp or lower) unless a tracer/genji is on top of me.I will throw it into tanks during an engage if a rein is swinging away to try and get buffs on teammates and debuffs on enemy's,but i feel like a lot of the time im just using it because its on cooldown

When should and shouldnt i use it?
This is a bit more of a subjective tip but someone on here suggested rebinding sleep dart to right mouse button and scope to a different mouse button (I have it on a side button, but middle click also works). I still sometimes hit shift in a panic dart scenario (which is why I also left it bound to that), but I'm getting a lot more comfortable with the right click now. 
SRSLY tho, wuts with the frame drops
Much appreciated post! If you're not getting your foot in with Ana, what heroes do you tend to switch to and why? (assuming your team stays the same)
Anywhere McCree is good. So like non-KOTH maps generally. Kings Row, Eichenwalde first point/last point, Illios: Ruins, Nepal: Sanctum, Route 66, Dorado, Oasis University, etc. 


It's really a good tech to use if you need to get a heal quickly then reposition. 
What's the quickscope mechanic?
I got away from learning it for a while but then I found it to be pretty useful on getting shots on tracer. 
Not necessary per se, but it really helps when you need an accurate shot immediately. 
I good way to practice quickscopes (after getting the basics down in the training ground) is in an Ana Paintball game, there are plenty of them in the custom games section and they're fun as hell.
He's saying if you want to play at master's/GM level, your accuracy needs to be what he posted. 66% might be good for Plat, but if you want to rank up you need to become more accurate.
Master ranked ana main here since season 3, your opponents aren't as capable of putting pressure on you either so you should still have a pretty good accuracy stat. But more important than is making those clutch shots on your low health squishy dps that wins them duels they would have otherwise lost or allow them to continue their aggression instead of having to back off. So those people who prioritize the tanks too much and pad their stats by shooting their tanks a lot will have good accuracy but aren't making (and hitting) the shots that matter. In higher ranks there are a lot more shots that matter that you need to hit to get your wins and being able to aim well and hit those shots will just get you a higher accuracy stat naturally without any stat padding.
As a silver Ana myself my accuracy is usually 70-75% SR isn't only accuracy. My positioning is terrible hence me still being silver. But in some ways yes it is SR dependent. In others not as much. 
Try lowering your sensitivity if you haven't yet.  
Those are about the accuracies you should be pushing for to make her viable. Below that and mercy probably becomes more effective.
The accuracy stat will also depend on how frequently you're firing. You might be better off shooting more often and hitting fewer shots than having a higher accuracy but lower shots/minute. This is why looking at stats in isolation can be misleading.
It also depends on whether you have a 144 Hz monitor or not. It makes a huge difference from 60 Hz since you can follow enemies significantly easier. Most reports I've read claimed that they had an easy boost of 10-20% accuracy from simply upgrading.

OP makes it sound like a big deal, but the reality is, GM players primarily use 144 Hz monitors, which significantly contributes to their high average accuracy.
Yeah that's why I developed all of these techs to maximize my scope usage while not scoping in for too long or predictably. 

I do a lot of quickscoping as well. It's really just game sense for when you can use the scope and when you can't. 

A good Ana player should always keep track of the highest threats to her safety. Like Ana is exactly McCree positionally. She's very very challenging positionally and that's my favorite part about her. 

Nade is situtional. You never want it to be on CD when you need it, so unless you can get an obvious antiheal I just use it defensively. If there's 2nd healer actively healing me, (Zenyatta and low rank Lucios usually is the worst culprit for not healing/peeling a friendly Ana), then I'm able to play much more aggressively.  
It depends on what rank you are imo. I'd rather have a zen instead of mercy at the higher ranks because discord and trance are very powerful. Also zen can fend for himself against flankers better than ana can.
Ana can't deal with 2 people at once. If you can coordinate a tank or second DPS to come with ana will melt. Also listen for the sleep or grenade sounds and engage her when her abilities are on cooldown.
Also, accuracy stats for her often will get inflated from people mindlessly shooting full health teammates in between fights. If you deliberately try to pad your accuracy stats it's not hard to get 90%.
Updated drivers, performance still bad. 

They changed something about 4 patches ago and my fps isn't looking nice. 

I used to be able rock 30 fps on my crappy laptop, now its 5fps and unplayable.
I've been high Masters-low GM since S3. I'm not gonna post my battletag because I've said some inflammatory shit. 
hold. i just have muscle memory of quickscoping since MW2 and since then scope has always been hold for me. 
But if you want to improve your mechanics, you should play mechanically challenging heroes like Ana.
I had the same issue and it was my AMD drivers. Reverted to the old ones and I have stable 200 FPS again.
Why is McCree and Ana not ideal on KOTH?
dont forget hanamura and anubis, i personally dont think shes good illios and koth in general. imo zen + lucio is strictly better in most cases.
As Ana you have a sniper rifle with a crosshair even when not scoped in, that requires no charging, and that has an interesting mechanic behind it. Ana's gun works in two different ways: projectile and hitscan. When scoped in you hitscan, when hip firing you projectile. 

The quickscope is when you aim on hip fire, then scope in and shoot as soon as you can, **using the hitscan mechanic**, even though you've only been scoped in for a fraction of a second. So you basically hip fire, but instead of having your shot be a projectile, it's hitscan, instead.

It's easier to understand when you see it, [so here it is](https://youtu.be/VdiR6G5J6DA?t=3s).
Yeah, I'm mid gold and I like picking Ana situationally, accuracy is always 70-80% but my win rate with her is horrific. I don't think my positioning is all that bad (I main Zen which is somewhat similar?), I might just be synergizing poorly with my team :(
I did a cost benefit analysis on them. Considering grenade and ana's reloading time, Ana is better if you can hit your shots above 50% of the time. However, the lower elo you go, the worse your ult becomes as Ana because you are giving it to people who are less mechanically gifted. Dragon blade is a lot more useful. It's so awful when you get a D.Va who needs to stall until the team gets back, and you nano her, and she immediately throws the bomb and kills no one. Zero game sense right there, especially when you catch a lot of salt for trying to explain what they should have done in that situation, but that's what you're up against in lower Tiers. With Mercy you actually have a huge advantage because if you rez 2-3 people, it's more likely that the enemy team's cool downs are all used up and they're out of position. Sleep dart is the same way. 
As they say. You miss every shot you don't take.
I don't think this has actually been empirically tested by anyone (except for WarOwl who did an informal test with himself and found no benefit to a high refresh monitor). I think the accuracy benefits of 144 Hz monitors are oversold a bit. That said, it does make the game perceptually feel smoother, so it's still worth the upgrade in my opinion.
100% agree.  I used Ana to climb from low silver to mid plat season 5 - current and stats are probably the first thing to dismiss.  

Prioritise healing unless dps is more important (stop healing a half health winston to take a shot at a low go pharah who might have ult etc), know when and who to nano for best results which might not always be kills but just crowd control and practice noscoping.  That would be my advice to a new Ana player, but I'm still climbing so I'm sure I have a lot to learn.

EDIT:  Hour to Health
No, what I mean is the last two drivers yield bad performance. Dunno about laptop drivers but on desktop 17.4.4 is what works
>I've said some inflammatory shit.  

Respect

no doubt, if you want to improve mechanics as an individual Ana is better, I mean arguably anyone has a higher mechanics ceiling than Mercy. But for the better of the team (most of the time under Diamond) I think Mercy is more beneficial 
No mobility options for either of them, and KOTH maps favor the heavy mobility characters.  
IMO McCree and Ana rely on long ranges as their specialty. And on smaller enclosed maps being in the front line leads to their death. Although McCree has a strong 1v1 because of his combo, Reaper would really outclass him in the enclosed brawl. That's just my thoughts though.
Also you can jump and quickscope for hitscan accuracy at a walking speed.
I had no idea she was hitscan when scoped in, thank you for this! 
Thank you!
[Ana was a MW2 Intervention quickscoper in her past life](https://youtu.be/45BptbrhDqo?t=12s)
The only problem with this is that the time it takes for you to shoot again when you quick scope is **longer** than if you would've done either two scoped shots or two unscoped shots. Having said this, I don't recommend quick scoping for people starting out with Ana because they may end up watching their teammates die without knowing why.
> Considering grenade and ana's reloading time, Ana is better if you can hit your shots above 50% of the time.

This is ideal nade situation as well though. If you are constantly using nade to make up for bad accuracy, then you lose out on the value of anti-heal. Not to mention that nade is her only form of self-sustain. If you don't have much peel, you are going to be using nade more for self-sustain than heal boost.

While 50% may be the minimum cutoff, 70% seems like the more ideal cutoff to actually get any effectiveness out of the rest of her kit.
But that 50% is probably not taking account of time to aim, reloading, and shots on certain heroes. 
You can't really quote one person's anecdotal evidence as applying to every gamer in the world. There will always be people who argue that 144 Hz monitors won't necessarily help.

Personally, I'll take the 90% of gamers who claim that 144 Hz monitors have improved their aim significantly over the 10% who claim otherwise, any day.

I've read many claims in the past by many Overwatch gamers who have stated that they had a boost in accuracy from simply upgrading. "The difference is night and day." is such a common quote now. All of my T500 friends (some of which are T100) agree with that notion; the benefits attained from a 144 Hz monitor just can't be ignored. Although, because they play at a high skill tier, every little bit counts, and the only way to beat the competition is to not play with a handicap.

On a side note, I remember Linus once doing a test like this on YouTube, and the conclusion he reached was that casual gamers might not notice anything, but hardcore gamers will certainly notice a difference. I feel that this is an accurate conclusion.

At the end of the day, it only makes skilled players better. If you're not really skilled in the first place, it's obviously not going to do you any good :P.
This is why I am excited for the Mercy changes. She's actually going to be fun, and that's going to matter on the ladder. Right now her and Lucio are the only ones with movement abilities in the healer class... but she's boring so she never gets picked.
Also, When she's zoomed in enemies can see the bullet trace, Hip fire they can't
Not saying it should be the cut off. It's just a stat needed to mimic the healing per second. It's one of those weird things in Overwatch where the stats don't matter that much because key plays are more important than stats. Solo kills should really be a stat that everyone has because it's one of the only things that can indicate a real carry.

Imagine an ana that never dies, but gets 50% accuracy and lands sleep darts on all ulting DPS. It would be far more useful than 20% more accuracy.

So you're right, but it's all situational.

slight tangent but I'm looking forward to the jump from 144hz to 300, it'll be nuts

still remember the first time switching from a 60hz monitor, the difference was amazing
I'm not saying you're wrong, it would just be nice if someone could prove this for sure. I remember watching that Linus video, I think he was testing 240 Hz monitors? The thing is, he didn't actually run a proper study comparing accuracy pre/post. It would be kind of surprising if a higher refresh monitor *didn't* give you an advantage, but people like Super Bunnyhop and RocketJumpNinja have reported being just as accurate at 60 Hz as at higher refresh rates. I myself didn't notice a huge jump in my accuracy when I upgraded to 144 Hz, but then again I'm just a lowly diamond. It's something worth investigating IMO.
> but she's boring so she never gets picked.

Mercy is one of the top picked, if not the top pick at every rank. The only place she doesn't get picked at lot is in pro matches.
Right, so does that mean with the qs trick your bullets will appear as the darts instead of the lines?
I heard they were getting rid of this in a future patch.
I think you mean 240 Hz, not 300. 300 doesn't exist yet.

I think a few streamers made that jump, and they did notice a further improvement, but not as big as the one from 60 to 144.

It's also a costly investment since your hardware needs to be pretty recent to maintain over 240 FPS consistently, which probably isn't worth the money required just for that minor gain in performance.
It's case-by-case. On paper, the technical advancement from 60 to 144 to 240 to whatever from now on will always provide the *potential* for better gameplay. Whether the user of the hardware is capable of taking advantage of it is something else.

Some people have argued that only jet fighters are capable of actually training their eyes to see insanely high rates (or whatever they call the term if it's not Hz or FPS), but someone else I watched also proved that the way frames work is enough to prove that an advantage exists in being able to more frames.

It was from a YouTube video, but I think what the person described was: The system renders all the frames as you would see displayed in a FPS counter, but since your monitor only displays the latest *monitor* frame every millisecond, "off-sync" frames will provide inaccuracies, especially during fast-paced action.

Having 144 FPS or more on 144 Hz monitors means that the frequency of "off-sync" frames is close to never since virtually no frames are discarded by the monitor.

An easy way to look at it is like this: If a 144 Hz monitor can display 4 visible "scenes" to your eyes in a millisecond, a 60 Hz monitor would only be able to show you half of those scenes. That means you'll see 2 visible scenes, but the other 2 get discarded. Whether or not those discard scenes is crucial to your gameplay is hard to say, but over the long run, it builds up.

Of course, with all that being said, a lot of it has to do with the game itself too. Fast-paced games like OW stand to benefit from 144 Hz monitors, but slower paced games might not. 144 Hz monitors might help you see microscopic changes in movement that would've otherwise been discarded.

Again, it depends on individual skill. I don't think I've ever heard of a pro mention that 144 Hz monitors made them worse. Only better.
Ok dad
They appear as lines. The benefit is you don't have to stay scoped in, and if you use it mid-jump, you don't lose movement speed 
They'll still adopt the bullet trace so they give away your position. 
No
I know it doesn't, that's why I'm looking forward to it =p

and yeah people say 240hz isn't that big a jump by comparison.  I know some csgo pros play on 240, but for most people it isn't worth the $600 (and like you said, the extra money to achieve stable high fps like that)
Sick
Thank you!
I think somebody argued that only jet fighters could see such high frame rates, which is probably why the improvement is minor or possibly even placebo and just simulated.

Different Sens for Different Heroes
Title says it all. Right now I am playing with 800dpi x 4.65 in-game. This, from what I have seen, is really low but I find it comfortable for my Hitscan characters like Soldier, McCree, Tracer and Dva. The problem is, for heroes like Reinhardt, Winston, Genji, Pharah, Mercy, Zen, and Lucio. 

Should I up my sens to maybe 5.25 or around that to make up for their specific playstyles, or is it better to simply get used to my normal sens for these heroes and make it work?I have recently been considering this.  I play on console and have been playing mostly Zen and Torbjorn. I play a pretty aggressive Torb and like to get up close and personal so I've found that a higher sensitivity helps me with close range flick shots using his alt fire. With Zen however I usually hang further back and it helps to have a lower sensitivity to anticipate projectile travel. I have not tried multiple settings yet. I guess I am afraid that it will mess with my muscle memory. Anyone have success with this?
This is generally not recommended. You want to try to keep a consistent sens across all the heroes so that your muscle memory can carry between them. Having multiple sens will likely confuse you in the long run and reduce the consistency of your play style.

I would recommend getting used to it. If you have the desk space, try getting a bigger mouse pad and setting aside more space for it. They're cheap and it'll help.
I keep a sens for tanks and a sens for everyone else. Altho baby dva is super inaccurate for me
Technically there's probably a best setting for each hero based on your preferences, but unless you're ready to put Tviq-level hours into each hero and sens it just makes a lot more sense to master one sens that fits for your setup and work it until it's second nature. 

Someone who only plays dva and has higher sens settings because of it is probably going to be a better dva than a hitscan player flexing onto dva, but that's not super important. 

IMO pick a sens, make sure you've got a good pad and mouse, then grind those settings til they're second nature. 

GLHF
I think console is a different can of worms. You can afford to be a little more liberal because of the limitations of the controller. Aren't there also more options now that let you change the exponential sensitivity?

I'd still recommend keeping a consistent sens across an entire platform when possible.
I actually just bought the qxc+ yesterday and should be in tomorrow. I heard it is a great mousepad and large, hopefully large enough for my sens
They have dual zone, exponential and linear ramp options. I have been using linear. There are also aim smoothing, aim ease in options as well as tweaks you can make to aim assist window and magnitude. 
I have one in that series, though I'm not sure which size I have. I really like it.

Now that Junkrat has been getting buffs has the skill floor for his kit been raised? I would love tips.
I generally hated Junkrat for the most part of the time that I've been playing Overwatch but lately ever since his buff, I've been finding myself having a blast.  

I main hitscan heros but Junkrat has been a guilty pleasure lately. I know the root of his kit is area denial by spamming through chokes but what else can I do as Junkrat to help my team?  

I've watched a lot of Taimou, Flow3r and some PvP Twitch lately and I've been incredibly impressed at how consistent they are with a hero who was deemed F-Tier now legitimate threat.  


My observations with all of them is that they seem to be more 'delicate' in their spamming and take into account his arching when spamming into a choke but how can I confirm the kill if I got a hitmarker? Should I follow up with a mine in the same general direction?  They seem to know how to land their hits.  

Are there other ways to use the mine besides disrupting enemy positioning and relocating to high ground? Should I be placing it more or using it for other scenarios?  

Any general tips to keep my tire alive before it gets shut down? I know it's not good to get greedy with it and take a kill if you see it. 

I've also seen Seagull and Taimou use the momentum of Junkrat's jump/fall after mine jump to get to some cool high ground. Using a second mine to increase my hang time is cool but I find it very hard to use the second mine to get further out, I tend to go up vertically or get pushed back instead of moving forward.  

I'm also having trouble/confusion with where I should be placing my traps. I'm confused at how streamers most of the time get someone trapped. I know a lot of the times it's easy to see it but I would like to be more sneaky about cucking someone with it before it gets destroyed. I'm awful at placing them.  

Any tips would be highly appreciated. I'm really naive when it comes to Junkrat and the cheeky plays I pull just tend to be random strokes of genius that occur to me.  His ceiling has been raised (more focus on his bursts of mobility, his ult is finally somewhat useful at higher levels of play) but his floor has been lowered : his ult was not easily countered at lower levels, now it's even worse, don't expect anyone to shoot the tire and he is effectively a little bit more spammy with the double mine.

As far as streamers are concerned, you can also try Chro who's been playing Junkrat only since day 1 (there's a post in this sub somewhere).
A streamer I watch on YouTube called Jacklz did a really helpful junkrat tutorial. He's a 4400 SR junkrat main 
A really good tutorial video by a rank 1 Junkrat. Focuses on 1 v 1 match ups with all heroes but very educational. 

https://youtu.be/Ezk4HUZpWr8
even though being stronger makes things easier, there is still more skill because having 2 mines gives 2 opportunities to make pro plays with them rather than only 1 opportunity. A pro player will have more opportunity to make pro plays.
Absolutely not. His skill floor was lowered significantly. 

>Should I follow up with a mine in the same general direction?

No. Identify what you should be doing and commit to it. If you want to secure a kill, don't do it blindly from the other side of a hallway. Otherwise, you're probably better off staying in position and spamming. 

> Should I be placing it more or using it for other scenarios?

Personally, I never end up having a mine just lying around for long periods of time. I place one by a trap or something if I have downtime, but I usually find an opportunity to throw out another mine before I can detonate the first one.

>I tend to go up vertically or get pushed back instead of moving forward.

You have to be positioned in front of the mine for it to launch you forward. 

> I'm also having trouble/confusion with where I should be placing my traps.

Put it in the hotspots where people usually go through. However, you shouldn't just place one trap and wait all game for someone to walk on it. IMO, you should be using it offensively more than you should defensively,  especially during a team fight when people are pre-occupied because it's not as easy to see as you probably think. 

2 mines let's you do some neat aerial tricks, you can get higher further, or wrap around a corner.

Jump before launching yourself for more velocity/distance/height. As with all "boops" it's greatly more effective with feet off the ground.

Shield DPS is very high, and they're easy to hit, and provide no ult to enemy support for your DMG spam.

Don't spam for no reason (teams aren't engaged, team isn't ready to initiate. You'll just feed support charge)

Besides covering flanks or setting an ambush, you can also throw a trap down right before you die. In lower tier you have a chance to catch them and force them to take your death nades for revenge.
Can you link that specific video? 
https://youtu.be/LFdCl1pU-zM
Worth noting this is pre-buff.
I've watched it (Junrkat main here), and a lot of the basic principles he talks about still apply even with the buffs.

Roadhog buff, viable again?
So after reading about the new buffs I've been looking to start playing one of my favourite heroes again...the Hog. As the games start, I land one hook after the other, and even manage to wipe out half the team with my ult....and still, we lose the game. 

The same thing happens several times in a row. Even though I'm having fun with roadhog, it seems to me that he just does not contribute enough to the objective to actually secure the win. He's arbitrarily better on king of the hill maps, but just feels so lacklustre compared to the other tanks when playing escort or capture point maps. 

So my question is, am I just playing him wrong, or does he still need more buffs to become viable again. Are there any tutorials or pros playing with the new hoag (Im high gold-low plat)?There's no denying that other tanks at better in every way. But RH can still work if you really want to play him. Being able to move while healing along with the damage reduction makes him very tough to kill and allows you to play in the front-lines a little better. You can also heal while going through a choke which makes him kinda like a true tank even for just a few seconds.

In the offensive side, RH can still reliably kill 200hp heroes through one-shotting or a second LMB. I've also been able to 1v1 Reapers and many other squishy heroes with the healing buff. Also, people are finally starting to learn and realise that he can't one-shot anymore (especially the tanks) so teammates actually help now if your targets gets away.

Roadhog's role is a front-line tank now. Hooking  targets towards your team and then spamming until you get your hook again. He's also imo still a must pick for maps like Illios well and Lijiang garden where enemies can fall to their deaths.
He is meh solo now. If you can get your team to play around him he can do fine. Trying to carry with him is going to be hard now compared to prenerf. 
There is a video by harbleu playing the new Roadhog at 200 ping and crushing the opposing team. He is a pro player with many hours on Roadhog. His thoughts were Roadhog is viable again. 

Quite an entertaining video:

https://youtu.be/gmoXPmEUulU?t=18m18s
The thing is you can't really pay him any more how he used to be played. Except if you shoot hook shoot melee combo well.

So you have to play him around your team preferably with a tank who has shields. Often people go solo tank road which doesn't help anyone on the team.

So play with your combo, shoot before you hook and don't solo tank road
Well he used to be played as a tanky dps rather than an actual 'tank' by gaming definitions. His changes have made him tankier for sure, but that's still not the same thing as the tank role. So yeah if you try to use him as a replacement for an actual anchor tank, you'll probably fail hard. Seems to me that where hog is right now, is a staller / disruptor. More akin to mei than a true tank. He's superb as a staller now, he can survive through dva ults and all sorts. now that it's not an instakill, hook is more a disruptor, pulling the enemy out of position instead of punishing those out of position to start with. Play him close to your 'real' tank rather than as a substitute.
he still is and will be pretty bad on some maps regardless of how strong hes consisdered. every map with highground is a dva/winston map otherwise you cant contest highground.

hes good on the maps rein is good basically. maps like kings, most koth, dorado, hanamura first, volskya first, eichenwalde first and second, anubis.
He is actually quite viable now imo...
Not perfect, but viable.

Reduce the hook CD to 6 sec again, and MAYBE reduce the scatter area of left-click to a maybe 5-10% smaller area, and I think he will be very very good once again.

Take me under your wing pls senpai!!🤗 [PS4]
If someone could really mentor and coach me, ill cook you dinner or something lol. Seriously tho,  im looking to climb. I gotta a good grasp of the game fundamentally but i need a little guidance. Must have  at least diamond!!!Where are you at now? I play in High Plat Low Diamond so if you're below that maybe I could help you out. Epicdri71 on PSN.
Add me at Zayyy07 ill be on tonight. Thanks. I play at  around diamond as well

Mentality
I am not a victim. 

I have and will hardcarry on Lucio if I have to. I will play my role to the best of my ability. I will hustle and make plays and not miss crucial timings. 

I can flex and play different heroes. 

I won't blame matchmaking. I won't blame others. Everyone makes mistakes. I won't blame myself. I make mistakes. I understand some elements of the game are just RNG. 

I will focus on making big plays and doing the little things above all else. I'm not above anyone else. I just want to get better and be a strong player.When was this track released? I think I still have the original on vinyl.
My fucking man.
Don't forget to just have fun. 
I am ready to bring the noise.
The sound of crit hits makes whigs split,
it doesn't matter the distance,
for instance, my zen will find you,
the discord will remind you
to watch your step and watch your back,
my reaper will eat ya soul like it's a snack.
the kill-feed will bleed like red beef
whether defense or on the attack.

Stay alive, watch out for dive, 
work together as a team.
change your hero to counterpick, 
stick to whatever the fight needs.
the dopeness comes from laser focus,
the hopeless think it's hocus pocus,
but they aren't good enough to notice,
that teamwork makes the dreamwork,
elegant and beautiful like the lotus.

it's nothing personal the way my tracer's working you.
Hi-Ya! i'm prepared to go wire to wire,
my shit's never not on fire,
your outlook is dire, when we grav and rip-tire.
and when your life expires, 
it's okay to rage and think you should retire.
and even when you bounce back and think you got play,
our nano-blade, so sweet like lemonade, 
will put your squad into disarray.
I want you to quit, 
I want you to know,
you couldn't do shit
because I shut you down,
and made you submit

I'm the reason why you think that ___ needs a nerf.
no matter the map, man, you're on my fucking turf.
now is the time to earn respect
and prove what you're worth.
because my squad is the real thing,
a finely tuned machine.
and when we meet our match,
it's time to take a seat,
but first a bow and hats off,
stay humble in defeat.



I will mute chat/leave voice and Hanzo main until the day I die!
One thing that always made me feel better and less frustrated is this. "The other team has 6 chances to have a troll and your team only has 5 chances if you have the right attitude, eventually, the other team will have the D.C. Or troll and you will get that free SR back. Just stay grinding and eventually you will climb"


Another thing that helped. "Just fuck shit up for one player On the other team till he tilts if you're good enough to do that, you're good enough to climb". 

Until I can reasonably target a single player on the enemy team and beat them every time. I don't think I will be good enough to be higher SR lol. 
1 wrong thing. Blame yourself for everything. Can't win, it's your fault. only way I actually found to improve.
I am going to screencap this, print it, frame it, and mount it on the wall behind my monitor.  
I do this but I try to say one word in my head over and over to help my subconscious carry it out.  

Words like smooth, or effective etc.
You are the Martin Luther King Jr of Overwatch.
I like a lot of parts of this post, but if we're talking productive mentality anthem, I think some of it needs to be revisited.

> I have and will hardcarry on Lucio if I have to.

should be *I will hard carry on Lucio if I am able to and attempting to do so isn't detrimental.* You can't just decide to hard carry and then actually do it, and attempting to make big, hard carrying plays might actually cost the game.

> I won't blame myself.

I think if you're going to blame anyone or anything, this is the most productive thing to blame. There will always be reasons for a win or a loss, and taking responsibility for both is important so that you can improve.

> I understand some elements of the game are just RNG.

Well, not literally, but I know you mean chance. Yes, there is chance involved, but I think the biggest aspect of chance is actually the matchmaking, which you said to not attribute for a loss [or I assume a win, either]. But really, matchmaking, and all chance, is going to have a big effect on outcomes.

> I will focus on making big plays and doing the little things above all else.

These sentiments seem opposed. I think *I will focus on fundamentals and good decision making above all else, while still seeing opportunities for big plays* is more productive.

Anyway, fun post, some good sentiments. Just wanted to be that guy.
"I am a teammate. I am not the team. These people are here to help me and I am here to help them."
I love the sentiment, and I do think we should have a creed, but I would make a few changes.

"I won't blame myself."
While it is important to not tilt due to your play, recognizing poor play and adjusting is vital.

"I understand some of the elements of this game are just rng."
As a Zen main, I certainly can relate. However, there are a lot of things you can do to minimize unexpected deaths.

"I will focus on big plays."
I think focus should mostly be on positioning, controlling space, ult status of all players, etc. before big plays.

Just a few quick thoughts. I'd love for us to have an official vow in the side bar.     
*me with almost 200 hours on support heroes*
I had 4 very bad hours today. Placed 2040, serious losing streak now I'm below 1500. 

But I'm actually happy about it. 

If you don't lose you don't learn. I have a whole season to play my way back to gold and I'm gonna get there.
Zenyatta, is that you? 
Best post I have seen in months. If you play on EU servers let me add you on my friend list.
I wish I could say this and mean it. 
[deleted]
Ah, the Ballad of the Non-existent Player.
THIS IS MY LUCIO. THERE ARE MANY LIKE IT, BUT THIS ONE IS MINE.
I really need to keep this one in mind. Last night, doing placements, I went 1-3...but I realized, that they were actually all fun games. I need to make sure I don't get locked into negative thinking spirals, which has happened in previous seasons. I'd rather be having fun in silver than stressed as hell in gold.
It's just a game. Why you heff to be mad?

If something's making you angry then change your think, or change your do. Video games are for fun!
**THIS IS COMP, YOU FREAKING CASUAL! WINNING IS MORE IMPORTANT THAN FUN!**
So long as the “fun” you’re having isn’t at the expense of others. I dig the positivity though!
Overwatch freestyle!? This comment is underrated
Dopeeeeeeee
Whatever makes you happy! 
Taking responsibility for a lost game and blaming yourself are not the same thing. I think OP meant that you shouldn't be dragged down by your failures, but use them as a path to improvement. 
Take a picture of your screen with your phone. Print that picture, frame it, sell it on eBay for $100k.
Your intepretations of what I wrote are what I meant but it wouldn't have been as poetic to be as precise and nuanced. :P
why would you play mercy with 3 dps? thats like asking to lose
I think you mean "THERE ARE NOT MANY LIKE IT, BECAUSE OVERWATCH IS TOXIC"
I had the reverse. Teamed up with buddy from work. Winston/Zenyatta. So much fun I wasn't checking SR, thought we went like 3-3, games we should have lost we pulled out. Frustrating but fun as hell. Actually went 5-1-1. 
Guess I'll OTP hanzo from now on then
To an extent it sorta is. I mean, at least more so than any other game mode by far. I only say this because I've had one too many people insta-lock their favorite character the whole game, with no flexibility, because 'they want to have fun' 
What if their fun is at the expense of mine?
Yeah, it's just a more verbose way of expressing what you meant. The user legitimately believes they're improving what you wrote with those suggestions. Ok...
Because our team doesn't have one, they're crying for one, she's basically a mandatory pick on defense, and I'm an awful Ana. 

The "right" answer is to drop out of voice chat, pick something with a self-heal and carry the team. Don't be the pariah, you'll lose anyway and you'll just be angry about it.
Yay an entry fragger who can hit his headshots.
lol mercy is never a mandatory pick ever. if you are bad with the other supports learn them.
No.

I'm done flexing for someone else's OTP every game. Someone else can hold that ball for a while.

e: I'm not your downvoter, either. I disagree with your argument but it is perfectly valid. The more heroes you can play competently, the better your overall understanding of the game becomes and the better you'll be at it in general. I just hate healing.
You hate healing because it isn't fun. It's like staring at the sky most of the time, and the rest of the time it's like staring at the sky while a Japanese piano falls out of it onto your head. If you've really practiced your Japanese piano dodging, you can survive long enough for someone else to take care of it for you.

Lucio is a possible exception to all this, but even for him the algorithm is super-simple. There are six steps to playing a competent Lucio up to the point where you hit Master.

I flex to Zen and Lucio if I'm queued with people I know, but I sure don't like doing it.

Commuting to improve
As a 6 season gold/plat, I am commuting to improve. I've played with a lot of diamonds thru GM in custom games and they regularly comment on how i am better than my SR. Yet, I still can't climb.

So I've begun recording my play and have taken the approach of analyzing every death.

I'm also in the process of growing my hero pool to allow me to flex. This is a major source of frustration for me. Getting countered and being stuck and a bit lost with what to do.

I've also begun to record my games.

Any other suggestions of what I should add to my initial approach of self improvement? My goal is to climb to GM in solo queue from 6 season gold/plat

Edit: I'm officially hyped
Someone stopped by and advised a stay closer to my healers while focusing on theirs. climbed to plat just this morning. 

if you already recorded some games you could upload them
Where are you commuting too? How long of a commute? Will you need to stop for gas?

Jokes aside, I think you mean "continuing" to improve? Or maybe "committed" to improving? Either way, here's some things to keep in mind.

Playing with higher ranked players than yourself allows you to play better in general. They have enough skill and awareness to make up for your flaws so you will find that your mistakes aren't punished as much. It can give a false sense of skill and make you think you are much better than you actually are. 

On the other hand, what it also shows is that you have the capability of getting there. Quite easily with the right work and practice. It means you likely have the mechanical skill to play on par with the higher ranked players but your awareness and general game sense may be lacking. This is a pretty common theme among plat players. The mechanical skill gap between gold/plat and diamond or even master isn't all that great (compared to the difference of a bronze to a gold, for instance, or a silver to plat). It's the awareness and game sense that is the largest gap.

Recording vods and having others critique them will go a long ways in helping you realize what mistakes you're making and how you can correct them. By this point, getting better is primarily about correcting mistakes and fixing bad habits rather than learning something new.

That doesn't mean that there aren't new lessons to learn. The majority of what you'll discover are just how to better implement the lessons you already know so that they are more effective. For instance, knowing not to trickle in and when to stay back and wait for your team to group up. You probably know better than to trickle but does it honestly stop you from doing so most of the time? You may think you can get back to the fight fast enough to help turn the tides but the result is dying to unfavorable odds and staggering your team respawns.

I could go on and on for days with examples and tips and such but it isn't until you can get your footage viewed and critiqued that you can start to hone in on your deficiencies and start correcting them.
commute
kəˈmjuːt/Submit
verb
gerund or present participle: commuting
1.
travel some distance between one's home and place of work on a regular basis.


What?
A lot of my improvement came from watching pros play and then emulating what they do. There is no point recording games if you don't know what you're doing wrong/right. Compare your plays against a pro player's vod or get it reviewed here.

I've also worked on my aim through drills and lowered my DPI so I can be more precise and consistent. I think poor aim is the main reason why players are below diamond.

Other stuff that I did was upgrading my hardware/peripherals. I bought an optical mouse that fits my hand/grip style and bought a bigger mousepad to allow me to comfortably play at low sens. I've also bought a 144hz monitor which helped me with tracking and reacting faster to movements.
Upload them? To where?
TBH critiques sound intimidating but I'm game for whatever. 
Committing aito correct
>A lot of my improvement came from watching pros play and then emulating what they do. There is no point recording games if you don't know what you're doing wrong/right. Compare your plays against a pro player's vod or get it reviewed here.

Stop. Please. Don't spread this. Watching pro's is fine but you can't feasibly emulate what they do unless your whole team is doing that together. Pro's operate on such a different level that they're essentially playing a completely different game. Emulating pro's or high ranking players just creates bad habits since you don't have a team that can work with you on that level. Unless you are at that level, in which case you wouldn't be here.

Also, there is plenty of reason to record games. Specifically so you **can** find out what you're doing right/wrong. If you already know your strengths and weaknesses then there'd be no reason to record your gameplay. The point of doing so is to review it yourself to find the problems or have others do it and let you know. Please don't discourage anyone from posting footage to find help and better themselves.

>I've also worked on my aim through drills and lowered my DPI so I can be more precise and consistent. I think poor aim is the main reason why players are below diamond.

You can run aim drills to help with aim. I use them for warm ups a lot. I wouldn't expressly say that lowering sensitivity alone will help. It's really more important to find a good, comfortable sensitivity. And sensitivity isn't all in DPI. Most of the time what people are talking about between their DPI and in game sens can be achieved with *just* in game sens. If you're trying to get to a really, really low sensitivity then you'd have to drop your DPI lower just so that the in game sens can give you smaller increments in your overall, effective sensitivity.

Also, aim isn't the main reason that separates plat and under from diamond and above. The biggest gap there is game awareness and sense. Mechanical skill gap between plat and diamond isn't all that great. It's more of knowing when to push forward and when to pull back. When to commit to a fight and when to retreat. When to use certain ults and which ones to combo as well as when to hold ults.

>Other stuff that I did was upgrading my hardware/peripherals. I bought an optical mouse that fits my hand/grip style and bought a bigger mousepad to allow me to comfortably play at low sens. I've also bought a 144hz monitor which helped me with tracking and reacting faster to movements.

This is certainly good advice for those who can afford it. It can be hard for some because certain peripherals are expensive, such as a 144hz monitor. $300 on the low end is kind of expensive. They do seem to be getting cheaper by the day though, as all technology does. A decent mouse, large mouse pad (providing you have the space for it), a good keyboard, a 144hz monitor are all great at helping one reach their maximum potential. They won't make you a *better* player, per se, but they will allow you to remove bottlenecks in your ability to improve. For example, as a Soldier player (utilizing tracking techniques while aiming) I had gotten pretty decent at tracking on my 60hz monitor. I upgraded to 144hz and holy mother of Kaplan did I notice a huge improvement. Tracking felt so much easier when the rendering was smoothly displayed. There are subtle movements that you can lose track of in such a fast paced game at 60hz that you can more easily spot and follow at 144hz. I can't say it made me better but it did allow me a bit of an easier time getting better.
youtube or twitch, but considering twitch wipes them after a week yt is better. then someone can review it on this sub.
They shouldn't intimidate you. That doesn't mean you won't necessarily like what you hear or that you'll instinctively want to argue against any points made but it's important to keep an open mind about the information provided and seriously consider it. Remember that it's not meant to insult you, it's meant as a means of helping you find your faults and get better. It's like any coach does for their team of any sport. It may sound harsh but it's a necessary evil, so to speak.

You don't even necessarily have to have others critique your footage. You can try watching it yourself. I would recommend waiting maybe a few hours or a day or two, some amount of time where that match isn't fresh on your mind. If you watch your own game play with a fresh mind, clear of any tilt or emotion that may have been wrapped up in a match, you'll notice your own mistakes based on the lessons you know but may not implement correctly.
> Stop. Please. Don't spread this. Watching pro's is fine but you can't feasibly emulate what they do unless your whole team is doing that together. Pro's operate on such a different level that they're essentially playing a completely different game. Emulating pro's or high ranking players just creates bad habits since you don't have a team that can work with you on that level. Unless you are at that level, in which case you wouldn't be here.

I'm sorry for any misunderstanding, but what I mean by watching pros is by watching them in a competitive solo queue environment (not in actual pro game), and I think you can extract a lot of information from them. I learned a lot from watching my favourite streamers wreck havoc in competitive. Things like Harbleu's Roadhog flanking routes, how he behaves against certain heroes/situations and how he manages cooldowns just to name a few. You can get what I've just given in here, but I think it's better to see things in practice.

> Also, there is plenty of reason to record games. Specifically so you can find out what you're doing right/wrong. If you already know your strengths and weaknesses then there'd be no reason to record your gameplay. The point of doing so is to review it yourself to find the problems or have others do it and let you know. Please don't discourage anyone from posting footage to find help and better themselves.

I'm not saying it's pointless to record games. I'm saying it's pointless to record if you don't have something to refer to when reviewing your plays. It's very tough to find the subtle mistakes that you make yourself (that's why you do them repeatedly) especially if you have lacking game sense which is why I've suggested to compare your recorded games against pros or alternatively get it reviewed here.

>Also, aim isn't the main reason that separates plat and under from diamond and above. The biggest gap there is game awareness and sense. Mechanical skill gap between plat and diamond isn't all that great. It's more of knowing when to push forward and when to pull back. When to commit to a fight and when to retreat. When to use certain ults and which ones to combo as well as when to hold ults.

Mechanical skill between tiers is massive. Below Diamond, Soldier's/McCree's usually gets themselves in good positions (e.g. high ground) but due to poor aim they can't take advantage of it. Game sense is important, but so does execution and I believe this is where the problem lies.


Twitch is where I keep them for me to review on my phone at night. I guess others could watch them. 


So I begun starting and stopping the stream so each game is its own vod... I'm gonna collect a handful of ones that I get confounded in and post them. 

Thanks for the reassurance. Anything but boosting to GM
>I'm sorry for any misunderstanding, but what I mean by watching pros is by watching them in a competitive solo queue environment (not in actual pro game), and I think you can extract a lot of information from them. I learned a lot from watching my favourite streamers wreck havoc in competitive. Things like Harbleu's Roadhog flanking routes, how he behaves against certain heroes/situations and how he manages cooldowns just to name a few. You can get what I've just given in here, but I think it's better to see things in practice.

I agree, there is plenty of things you can learn from watching high ranking players. But there are, likewise, plenty of bad habits you can form from it if you're not careful. Like I said before, some of it is because you don't have a team of that level providing the support you may need to pull off certain behaviors. Another reason is because a low ranking player may not understand why something was done and so trying to emulate that behavior creates a poor situations because they did so for the wrong reasons. You have to know and understand why a player took a certain flank or performed a certain action when they did and against the hero that they did. Otherwise you just learn bad priority, bad positioning, and overall bad behavior simply because you're not utilizing the lessons learned correctly. So I'm not saying to *never* watch pros or high level streamers, just take things with a grain of salt and be cautious about what you try to emulate. If you don't fully understand something then maybe it's best not to try it. Or at least, if you do try it and fail a few times then perhaps you don't understand it and it's best to stop.

>I'm not saying it's pointless to record games. I'm saying it's pointless to record if you don't have something to refer to when reviewing your plays. It's very tough to find the subtle mistakes that you make yourself (that's why you do them repeatedly) especially if you have lacking game sense which is why I've suggested to compare your recorded games against pros or alternatively get it reviewed here.

For a person in gold/plat, they most likely know the lessons and mistakes they shouldn't make, they just don't know how to implement the lessons correctly. They can record their own videos and watch them and figure out tons of mistakes they can correct on their own. Even if you don't recognize the mistakes, having other's review the vod will provide you with lessons to learn. A gold/plat player may not have the best game sense but that's mid match. When you're reviewing it later your attention can spread to other things and you can start to actually develop better game sense because you'll notice the things you should have seen during the game and you'll be consciously aware of it next time.

>Mechanical skill between tiers is massive. Below Diamond, Soldier's/McCree's usually gets themselves in good positions (e.g. high ground) but due to poor aim they can't take advantage of it. Game sense is important, but so does execution and I believe this is where the problem lies.

Mechanical skill is not that big between tiers. Not neighboring tiers anyway. A 2700 plat player often times has very similar mechanical skill to a 3200 diamond player. The difference is in their game sense and awareness and execution (not execution as in landing shots but as in tactically) of plays. A 2700 player can hit all the same targets as a 3200 player but if they don't know how to position better or remove barrier obstacles  so they can land those shots then they're going to appear as though they have worse mechanical skill on paper. That's not to say that there isn't a difference in mechanical skill. There certainly is. The gap between two neighboring ranks, plat and above, isn't as large in regards to mechanical skill so much as it is in game sense and awareness. That's precisely why OP can play with diamond+ players as a gold/plat player and perform on their level. The mechanical skill is their and the higher rank players provide OP with the opportunities they need to succeed. Where as in their gold/plat matches they, nor their team, have the game sense to defeat certain obstacles so that they can perform at a higher level of play.
well then make a post if you want them reviewed by people from this sub :v
>  agree, there is plenty of things you can learn from watching high ranking players. But there are, likewise, plenty of bad habits you can form from it if you're not careful

I don't agree that you can even develop bad habits by emulating pro players. Sure, one might blindly copy their favourite streamer and make a bad play, but I don't think that particular action/decision making will necessarily become a habit straight away. If anything, it might make them think and realise why they failed so they know what not to do next time. Learning through trial and error.

> When you're reviewing it later your attention can spread to other things and you can start to actually develop better game sense because you'll notice the things you should have seen during the game and you'll be consciously aware of it next time.

I don't think you can easily find your own mistakes just by watching your own gameplay alone which is why there are so many delusional low elo players that think they should be higher than where they currently are. I'm just a Masters player with still a lot to learn, yet I can't identify what I need to do to get to GM from just watching my own vods alone besides improving my aim. Once I've started comparing it to a pro streamer's vod, it suddenly became clear to me.

Lastly, we can go back and forth all day about game sense vs mechanics, but ultimately you need to be good at both in order to succeed and whichever you choose to improve will get you to at least diamond. I just put more value on aim and mechanics because this is an FPS game after all and as such you have to learn the fundamentals (e.g. aim) before anything else. So many 2700sr Soldier/McCree players are unable to even wound a Pharah simply because they can't nail down the basics of aiming and movement, whereas 3200sr hitscan players can handle Pharah very well. The difference is very noticeable.
Yeah, I watched some I'm horrible... taking fights I shouldn't, over exaggerating in coms, not even knowing what the ebony comp is cause I tab medals instead of comp.

I'll prob post one once I've gotten to the point of solid consistency.

I appreciate the suggestion tho. Just knowing someone may watch one of them has me playing much more responsible. It's netted me 300sr. Still a long way to go, but it's a start
If you're masters and can't pick out your own mistakes from your own vods then you're doomed to never go further. You likely only made it that far because you have exceptional aim ability. There are people who make it to very high ranks because their aim is so good. That's great! I'm not insulting it by any means. I mean seriously, I only wish I had that kind of aim. But what I am saying is that it is not the determining factor for the majority. Something like exceptional aim is a skill honed to that degree by only the minority of players in upper ranks. The majority have good aim. Great aim even. Comparable by a slim margin to ranks just below them. But exceptional aim is not shared by the majority.

Fortunately OW offers plenty of toons that don't require that specific ability to play well and rank up and it's people utilizing those characters in high ranks that got there because they learned the game sense and awareness necessary to compete at that level. They literally don't have the mechanical skill to play hit scan heroes at that level yet they can still get there without aim. That tells me that mechanical aim is **not** the primary factor that separates ranks like diamond and plat.

Delusional low elo players are only that way because of things like playing with higher ranking friends and they perform well so they think they belong there. They're not considering how much slack their group is picking up for them and allowing them room to make mistakes without being punished. They also get that way from trying emulate high ranking streamers. For example, DPStanky created a bunch of asshat Lucio players trying to emulate him and played absolutely horrible games. Going all out offensive rarely, if ever, actually healing their team. Completely wasting Lucio's potential as a healer and supporting their team. He was a good Lucio himself but he played on a level above the rest that allowed him to play that way. If he played Lucio the way he was designed to be played he would likely increase his rank and be an even greater player. It's like a 12th grader doing 8th grade math in his head. The 8th graders are impressed he can do that so well and 6th graders are trying to emulate it but if he applied himself then he'd be doing much more difficult stuff without a ton of effort and would be successful with it at the higher level.

And to touch your example, 2700 Soldier/McCree handle 2700 Pharahs just fine. Just as well as a 3200 Soldier/McCree working a 3200 Pharah. The skill in both ranks scales pretty much the same. There's a small difference but not much of one. And the difference doesn't come because of an inability to aim. It comes because of a lack of awareness and game sense. The 2700 player is likely to be aware of a Pharah's potential path and less likely to be ready to take her on when she approaches where as a 3200 player will be more likely to anticipate movement patterns and strategies and such.

Can't use abilities while crouching
More specifically I have my abilities set up on my mouse buttons. While holding left shift (crouch) and using what would normally be my E, Lshift, or Q abilities it just takes me out of crouch. Then, when I release the button it returns me to crouching. Is this intended? If it is not are there any ideas on how I can fix this? It typically gets in the way when trying to play sneakymcree and flashbanging from behind. 

Thanks in advance! :DHmm... What mouse & keyboard do you have?
Double check that some of those buttons aren't double bound where Crouch isn't also bound to any of those buttons as second, third, or 4th buttons. You can go into your keybinds, find Crouch, and look to the right. The first column would likely have Left Shift bound but the second, third, and so on, columns may have mouse buttons bound. I've run into something like this before when I accidentally bound melee to the same mouse button I use to push-to-talk.
Easiest fix... bind something to toggle crouch and use that when not anti-headshot crouchspamming. 
My keyboard is a Razor Blackwidow and mouse is a Logitech G502 proteus core. I should mention as well that the buttons on my mouse are mapped to the number pad keys on my keyboard. 
Can you try something? Map the mouse buttons to non-numpad keys (maybe like... `U`, `I`, `O` etc), then go bind your abilities in game to these new keys and see if the behaviour persists.
I can give that a try, I am at work currently so it will have to wait until I get home. 

Thanks for the assistance and I will let you know the results!
Let me know, I have some experience with mapping mouse buttons to keyboard keys (used to play League like that).

Videos of high Rank Players Playing at Lower Ranks
Does anyone know of any videos with high ranked players playing lower ranks?  I'm interested because too many times on see in this sub about how dominant high ranking players say they would be at lower ranks.  I'm not interested in a "prove it" way but rather I want to see what they are doing that makes them so dominant to compare it to my play.Several streamers have done it, they call it "bronze to GM." If you search that on YouTube you'll see them. Some that I know have done it are

Steve-o, Desrow, PVPtwitch, and IDDQD

Though I kinda hate that people do this so idk why I'm giving those guys views on those videos...
Borium has some videos like this.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-bo-fMX4wWs
If you are interested in Tank gameplay (Rein specifically), I could go record one on my gold smurf.
I don't have a video but I can tell you my personal experience.  
I play support (and some tanks) at ~3.6k and have a smurf around 3.2k where I play only heroes I don't play on my main (mostly DPS and tanks).  
Played quite a few games with some lower ranked friends (~2.5k) and one friend even pointed out himself that it's amazing how I can capitalize on the enemies' mistakes (primarily positioning). I'm generally a shotcaller so I tried to do that while playing DPS and usually my team would punish any overextension.

So for me it was mostly punishing the enemies' mistakes and a bit of coordination and aim (although admittedly I'm not that amazing at aiming for my SR)
Seagull on TwitchTV has decayed from GM to mid-diamond recently.  It's been pretty hilarious watching him struggle in "Diamond jail".
I'm not that "high rank" but I have some videos of me playing in silver if you want, I can pm. I'm a master support main but I was playing dps.
Youtube Bronze to GM and watch how they play and try to find the hero that you most play. This in general makes people like me who have been in GM since season 2 sick because when people do these bronze to gm series its all about trying to get views and sub or whatever. There is no honor in it at all and the countless games they ruin for others is just a terrible thing - so keep this in mind when watching this nonsense. 
Wanted has been streaming a lvl 25 account to gm the past few days. Doesn't take him long to face tougher opponents in placements but most the matches are stomps till he reaches masters.
I'm not a fan of it too since it's essentially creating wildly unbalanced matches on their way to the top. At least most of the people on your list only do it once. DesRow pretty much keeps doing it over and over again with different heroes.
I hate that IronAids did it, but I'm not sure he had that Mercy account before and it's now hilarious (as it's properly placed in GM).
Well tbh you should Be like „Nice playing against a good player now i learn“
Not that it is fun 
But it still teaches you 
I actually like Borium and have played a bunch of games with him. He doesnt do this often because as you can see its not much of a challenge and the people at this elo for those 3 games lost before the game began. 
I would be interested!
Definitely interested.  I'm mostly concerned with the tank/ support perspective as that's what I usually play.  Thanks.
Matches are made on MMR, so he's still going with/against GMs.
Link please ?
Yeah IDDQD only started it and then stopped when people were hating on the idea.

I know PVP has done it at least twice.
Its terrible and something that should be bannable. 
DesRow has always been a dirtbag so I'm not surprised. Even during the Starcraft 2 days.
Playing with better people teaches you a lot... not sure if playing against them does as much. 
Alright, I'll do one soon then.
His twitch user is wantedow. Should be his past few broadcasts. Started placements tues i think. Sorry at work and can't find the vod.
Just shows the character difference between the 2 of them. IDDQD Consumate Pro and PVPTwitch is basically a guy who is obsessed with being the number one junkrat and using it to get lower level people to follow him. Hes not as low as they go but hes close - oh and btw hes not number one anymore. 
>Its terrible and something that should be bannable

... from Twitch.  That would kill it instantly.
It is bannable. More of a matter of whether or not they will be. 
Second this - guys done it like 4-5 times to try to get subs. Total joke. 
I think there's merit in playing against people reasonably above your level. But playing against a single GM who proceeds to wreck you based on superior mechanics isn't going to teach you much. 
well overall it teaches you do´s and dont´s a lot faster as if you would play on your own rank since your enemys are to bad to punish your mistakes
RemindMe! 1 week
That was incredibly difficult to understand. Still not sure what you were trying to say exactly. But I have played against many smurfs and it taught me nothing but how to accept defeat. However, once i befriended a top500 who played with me, and taught me on my team how to approach various situations and play certain roles better i quickly climbed from diamond to GM
I will be messaging you on [**2017-09-14 16:22:50 UTC**](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=2017-09-14 16:22:50 UTC To Local Time) to remind you of [**this link.**](https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/6yjhhh/videos_of_high_rank_players_playing_at_lower_ranks/dmoug8x)

[**2 OTHERS CLICKED THIS LINK**](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Reminder&message=[https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/6yjhhh/videos_of_high_rank_players_playing_at_lower_ranks/dmoug8x]%0A%0ARemindMe!  1 week ) to send a PM to also be reminded and to reduce spam.

^(Parent commenter can ) [^(delete this message to hide from others.)](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Delete Comment&message=Delete! dmougjf)

_____

|[^(FAQs)](http://np.reddit.com/r/RemindMeBot/comments/24duzp/remindmebot_info/)|[^(Custom)](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Reminder&message=[LINK INSIDE SQUARE BRACKETS else default to FAQs]%0A%0ANOTE: Don't forget to add the time options after the command.%0A%0ARemindMe!)|[^(Your Reminders)](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=List Of Reminders&message=MyReminders!)|[^(Feedback)](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBotWrangler&subject=Feedback)|[^(Code)](https://github.com/SIlver--/remindmebot-reddit)|[^(Browser Extensions)](https://np.reddit.com/r/RemindMeBot/comments/4kldad/remindmebot_extensions/)
|-|-|-|-|-|-|
well ofc is someone better than you that is willing to teach better than a good enemy, but still, a good enemy will punish mistakes you make a lot harder which leads to learning the overall game (stuff like overextending, aiming bad).
sorry for my bad english hope you can understand better now
I second this.  Not just in overwatch but in everything.  Consistently playing against the best "forces" you to improve.  Of course if its just one smurf wrecking your whole team that's a different situation.

How to deal with good AD spammers as Soldier?
I'm at low Diamond and I can usually deal with AD spammers as Widow and McCree by predicting their movement and flicking to the chest area, but on soldier the 1 shot I get on a successful flick is almost worthless and spraying doesn't give me the dps I need. 

How do I hit these targets more reliably?Just timing/prediction dude, you have to read the tempo that he's spamming at and just keep your crosshair still and shoot when you feel the right pattern. As a 3.7k dps flex, I still find it really annoying, but you really just have to read the tempo.
Aim for body. Simple but sometimes the easy things are what we forget 
its reeeeeally hard to hit certain heroes if they crouch/ad spam. you can try to catch them off guard but certain heroes are extremly hard to hit if they do that.
Move your crosshair left and right while they AD spam and shoot when crosshair aligns with hitbox. Dont try to wait for them to walk into your crosshair 
Helix rocket their feet
Other shit people said is true but theres a better way to handle this all together. Your initial shots need to be accurate enough that you are connecting on most of them before your target is actively dodging you. You should be able to hit much more than 1 bullet typically. Focus on fast reaction time so you are moving your crosshair to the traget quick, and good accuracy on the initial few shots.

You will bring them down enough that your accuracy when they AD spam will not make as much of a difference.
Dont keep it still, good players see youre not moving aim
Uh, that has no effect on ADAD, just crouchspamming.
What does you not aiming have to do with anything? At the rank this guy is at, I don't think anyone will process or be able to see widow not moving her crosshair. Which considering they are moving in rapid intervals, you wouldn't be able to tell they are moving the tiny amounts.
I always believe it did. My bad
The body is a much wider target than the head.

My weird MMR
Hello fellow OW-U students,

I have questions regarding the MMR. 
Since S1 I am hoovering around high Gold to low Plat, being a flexer I aint even mad =) but lately I discovered when queing in QP my opponents are way above my SR, usually the reds are somewhere around ~2800 to 3100.

How exactly could this happen?!

Last season I decided to stop soloqing and duoqing in ranked and went for teams of at least three ppl to que ranked with. I play less ranked then in S1-S4, but I generally have more fun in comp doing so. Also my mates I usually play with are roughly between Gold and Master Could something of this have to do with my MMR/SR weirndess?!

Just to make this clear, I am far from "I´m gold but should be Diamond, hurr durr" I just wonder myself. On a sidenote: Does this MMR mean if I played ranked as casual/often as QP I may rank up to Dia some day?! :Pqp and ranked use two different mmrs so you probably won a lot of your qps or did will in them
FLEX: that's why this is happening. 
Your MMR in quick play is probably very close to your SR performance. Mostly because you flex and all your game performances are similar. It's the OTHER Players who have weird MMRs. A lot of non-flex players use quick play to practice their lower skill heroes. This drags down their overall performance and lowers their MMR yet in ranked they only bring their A-game heroes so their SR stays high. 
I wouldn't take QP MMR so seriously. I am in plat-low diamond and I've played with people from literally every rank in QP. It depends on how much you win on QP and how good you do with those heroes you play. I very often find GM tank mains that only play genji or hanzo in QP on my games. 
I'm a mid-plat player who primarily just places and then does QP the rest of the season, but for a while (about 2 months) every QP match I was in was against GMs and T500s. And I'd get rolled hard.

It's down to diamond/masters now and life is better. QP MMR is just weird.
MMR = QP / SR = Ranked 

I am well aware of this, but isn´t the difference a little bit huge?! Spoken in SR its around 500 to 800 and averages around 650 points atm.

I don´t complain or anything - I just would like to know what´s up =) 
but i just explained it too you. you win more games than the average guy in qp thus you get people that probably dont tryhard that much and still win(higher ranked players)
>MMR = QP / SR = Ranked

That's not how that works. MMR is simply a Match Making Rating. There is an MMR for QP that is separate from your MMR for Comp. SR is just a Skill Rating that is a displayed rating to give you an idea of how you compare and rank. Technically they could do away with SR and you would still play the same matches. SR has very little influence on matchmaking when placing you in a match. SR has some influence on your MMR but in the grand scheme of things it is a small piece of the pie that determines your MMR and it's only relevant in Comp and has zero bearing on QP MMR.

People don't play QP the way they play comp. So perhaps you play QP in a similar fashion as you do to comp but those higher ranked players are using QP to goof off and try new heroes and such. They don't take it as seriously so they play at a lower level and thus are likely to have a lower MMR in QP.

Don't get tied up on Comp ranks in QP. They're essentially irrelevant.
This isn't accurate. Even in comp your matches are actually based off your hidden ranked mmr, which your visible Sr should somewhat reflect. Qp also runs off hidden mmr but after your first placements is no longer a factor in comp. 
lel, could it be so easy? =)
Don´t worry i won´t get tied up - it just made me curious and I wanted to ask you guys here for an educated guess =)
It's a fairly common question. A lot of people don't know how it works. I mean, ultimately no one but Blizzard knows how any of it works but they have given some official statements about how certain things *kind of* work. From those statements we can extrapolate some educated guesses. Somethings we do know for certain. Such as QP and Comp MMR's being completely separate. Blizzard has stated as much in the past.
yee, I knew it was separated - but  I wasn´t aware comp uses a second MMR AND the SR.  TIL =)
If you learned something new then the day wasn't wasted.

Help with Orisa and Environmental Kills
I am decent with Orisa. I feel like I have good shield placement. I am constantly improving stats. What I would like to do is increase my grav kills on certain maps. I always seem to misjudge and pull characters right to the edge.

Does anyone have any tips for better pulls?
Aim down a little bit. Characters can move in the air so sometimes if you aim too high you actually pull them off the edge but they are able to slide a meter over while falling and so land on the edge. Also use the length of the beam that connects to the player to judge distance. Head to the practice range and memorize how long the beam gets before it breaks.

Also most obviously but I'll say it anyways, don't waste halt on characters that have a movement ability unless you know its on cooldown for sure. 

Also sometimes it's better not to use it for an iffy environmental kill. You could save someone's life by pulling Tracer or Reaper behind a barrier or around a wall for a few seconds. I like to do a shield dance when I 1v1 and use halt to extend the amount of time someone is on the other side of the shield from me. 
The other things to remember is that targets are pulled until the edge of their hitbox touches the edge of the Halt sphere rather then the middle of it.  Also it's range is almost always better then you think it is. 

Aim high when you're turning target into pinyata but aim almost low when you're defenestrating them. 
As well as aim slightly down which people have covered - aim further over the pit if you find you keep pulling people to the edge instead of over it.

It feels intuitive (to me at least) to aim the halt ball where you want the victim to go, but that doesn't work - the hero will be pulled *next to* the halt ball, not where the ball goes. Every orisa player understands the ball mechanics, but it's harder (imo) to train your brain to account for them. So a conscious effort may help.
I don't know if you know this already but I just learned it. If you use halt and then again you trigger it in the air. On "Ilios: Well" I was getting a comical amount of environmental kills by firing it over the well and triggering it around enemies. They get sucked to the center and only winston made it out one time.
I learned your second point on Nepal. I pulled a Genji and a Sombra over. The Genji double juped out of it, but I got the Sombra. The aiming down is something I will work on, as well as beam length.

As to your last point, I do this when I can. If a group is approaching the point and we are at 95% capped, then I will try to pull them as far back as I can to get those last few percentage points.
I don't think I realized this. Thank you. That is helpful.

I try this, especially from one of the nearby rooftops. I think My mistake was shooting above the well instead of into it (aiming down).

Its a Teamgame it cant be my fault
Hello :)

This Sentence dropped my Friend yesterday after i told him to stop being that toxic guy everyone hates.

He placed low Plat, exactly 2500 and is for 5 Seasons now in Plat. But instead of improving he flames others. I stopped caring about his shitty behaviour, but he asked me often how are you Diamond/Masters and i cant escape Plat?

I said:

Stop trying to improve other Players, improve yourself.

Even tho that Overwatch is a Team game in every game there are or is a a short period of time where you can change the outcome.

I hope you agree with me there, and maybe you have tips how i can try to change his mindset.Having said that, you should try to improve others.

So many players don't know basic things like not trickling in or that switching is a good thing, that it is in our best interests to let them know. Even I can contribute in that regard.
My duo friend i play comp with tilts super quick. Whenever a teammate makes a misplay, he gets angry and he himself plays more poorly, the longer our comp session lasts. I've noticed that i win more games without him, which is a real shame because i don't think he is a bad player.

Imo the reason for this behavor is rank obsession. Players think they deserve a higher sr, but their teammates are holding them back. This mindset causes the player to only look at their teammates mistakes and completely stop  paying attention on their own performance. Thats also the reason why they are not improving.

Mabe you could ask your friend to record his gameplay, so you can analyze it together. www.mayhem.gg is a website specifically build for gameplay review sessions, so mabe you can try that out.  
You can try, improving others.. For example if there is aome free time. I always say.. Lets go highground.. Especially hitscan. It is a basic thing since AGES and people still forget it.

However. Yes. He has to focus on himself.. On plat and higher, people are there for SOME sort of reason. A reason which tells me they CAN do something. Therefore you cant blame everyone else for shet. It is also you that does shit.

Have no shame in saying it.
"dude.. Stfu. You dont know what happends there. It is annoying as hell having some dude randomly calling out every other dude"
You can say something small, jeah. Or say.. Guys. We ALL need to switch up our tactics etc. 
In comp yesterday -

"Hey rezzing there was kind of pointless since they just took the checkpoint"

"Fuck you. God you are a whiny and bitchy."

Point being unless you can figure how to be effective with the education, it can be detrimental.

His Download/upload rate is so low, even the Titanic sunk faster.

But your friend sounds like mine friend, let them Play together because - plus - = +

Jokes aside i guess you are right 

Good luck with your Friend  !
The "one mistake" tilt early in the game has Always baffled me. Each game is going to have multiple team fights. It's like giving up on a football game because the other team scored a touchdown on the opening drive. Yeah, it's not how you wanted to start but now it's time to regroup and focus on the next play. 

How many games have you seen where one team is clearly outplaying the other, yet it's still a one score game with 2 min left in the 4th quarter. 

And yeah I agree, the people who tilt easily like that just breed poor play. Everyone gets tense, and presses the issue usually causing snowball loss. And the more important part is nobody had fun. I may be an outlier, but a close game where we work together and stay positive but lose in OT is still a blast. Everyone is disappointed but says GG and is generally seemed to enjoy it. 

Wel i didnt took basic callouts in Account. (i play without comms)

But i agree wíth everything else :)
I think its one of the stupidest ideas to educate someone while "in the middle of a match" in this manner. When something goes wrong, moment is lost forever and saying "well you had to do X,Y,Z in that scenario you know that dude" never seem to do any good, even more so usually just triggers people and gives them opportunity to start flaming. I see it very often happens and have no idea why people yet to figure this out, that pointing out other mistakes during a match is very bad idea. When you point out someone mistake, you have to consider that it may be bad habit, ignorance or lack of focus or general skill all together, in any case its impossible to revert time and fix the mistake, its already done and its very unlikely person can just magically LVL-up his skill to not repeat it anymore, not to mention in all likelihood he will just not accept the criticism.
  Even when i think someone being very stupid id rather save my energy and focus  than try and Enlighten them with 5% chance of success.   

P.S. Point is - complitelly agree with you on this one
It's all in the delivery and some people are going to be immature and react to criticism poorly - sadly, this happens in the real world among middle aged adults all the time too, not much you can do about that.

Just realize there's many different ways to say the same thing and that most people aren't watching VODs, reading tips on reddit and following the main OW YouTubers to get better.
It's probably not just delivery, but also whether the information is actionable. Backwards restrospective isn't. Forward plans are."

I could have said something like: "Next time, let's try to hold rez if they have just taken the checkpoint. When we contest the next corner is a great time for a rez if we have it and they use an ult for kills."


yep, that too. telling someone what they did poorly is fine as long as you offer up some feedback and suggestions too. 

Like the people on that website that complain about shit but don't bother offering up any solutions, what's it called again? Reddit?

Low sensitivity flaws?
A while ago i saw a video, when someone explained that lower sensitivity makes people more "lazy" and less aggresive. Is it true (characters like Genji,Tracer)?It can make you lazy but hardly an excuse. That is more on the player if anything. 

Higher sens is nice but that has its own downfalls. Ultimately it comes down to preference. Could I play at a higher sense? Yes I could but I would need to put in more time to get use to it and warming up vs a low sense where I need ten minutes to warm up after a week break to get back to where I was 
If we are thinking about the same video the reasoning was that the new heavier mouse made him more lazy. Not the actual sens.


I changed from 3.2 800 dpi to 5.5 800 dpi and oh boy, it feels so much better.
Even if i tryed my best, i was not reactive as i liked to, and it felt like i had a good aim, but i could do better.

Now with this sense it just feels sooo much better, even if i am not as good as before with the aim, it will take time but it will be worth it
I like using lower sens, cause it's easier to be consistent with.

Back when i played on high sens, my aim was very inconsistent with sometimes me not hitting a single shot and then popping off etc
I forgot to add the flair :[
He said in the video that your peripheral awareness would decrease due to lower sensitivity, which is true if it's *too* low. You should be able to turn comfortably 180 degrees within one swipe of your mouse pad, so assuming you've acclimated to this, there's no reason your lower sensitivity should make your play "lazy".
Ah Yeah, That's the video. Idk Why i remembered it was about sensitivity. Thanks!
i play at double your sens with 11 at 800dpi lol
Well, 3.2 sens at 800 dpi is very low. 

How do placements determine which rank you place as?
So I went 6W 4L through solo and playing with friends and got placed 2150sr meanwhile my friend who I played all his placement games with, goes 7W 3L and gets placed at 2750sr. I'm not saying he is bad or anything but we both ended last season around 2200sr and he only plays Mercy so I'm confused as to how he got placed so much higher when he only won 1 more game than me. I also have another friend whom I played all his placement matches, go 4W 6L and he gets placed 2300sr when he was not even gold last season. I honestly think blizzard are trying out new ways to measure performance. So far it seems random as all hell. I got 5/5 and placed about 130sr higher then I ended my season on which was also my highest Sr exactly for last season. 
i won 6 lost 3 and a draw .... got 60 points lower then where i finished :) ! idk wtf is going on....
Placements are just regular ranked games with no visible SR change that we have to do because of arbitrary reasons on Blizzard's end. Three days between seasons and we have to play 10 games for no SR reward, for what? The offseason is no different than going away for a weekend at any point during the season, why pretend like our performances will be so varied that we need to re-calibrate our SR with 10 games that are more stressful than regular ladder matches because the structure implies doing poorly will cause you to be placed at the bottom of the *entire* ladder and the casual player won't understand it any other way. Placements lead to more salt and more upset teammates than playing at any other point in the season. The only reason you should ever need to place is if you just reached level 25. There is no MMR reset, why reset SR and make it look like MMR isn't part of the equation? The whole placement system is a waste of time once you already have competitive history.
I agree and this was my understanding but it is a little weird the way it's working. I ended last season at like 3330. Went 6-4 and got placed at 3450. That's 120 SR higher and I only won two more than I lost. Also 3450 was my career high.
It does seem like it could be reasonable to redo placements if you haven't played competitive in a while (e.g. skipped a season or two). But otherwise, yeah, I don't get what they're for.

Free Coaching[~3.6k DPS Flex]
Hey all,
I am offering free coaching services to anyone who is open to learn about the game and how it is played at an intermediately advanced level on the PC. I am a low Masters DPS flex(Hanzo main at the moment but can and do flex to nearly all heroes at about a 3k or greater level). I have "mained" a wide pool of heroes from each category and have built a solid level of game sense as well as mechanics[having climbed to masters almost solely on Hanzo].
I have often given advice or tips to friends and strangers but have never full-on "coached" someone. I want to lend a helping hand to anyone who may be new to the game or jaded with being stuck at their SR because it would have been amazing to have someone show me the ropes when I started off myself. I suppose this is aimed at players from Bronze to Diamond but i'm open to help anybody and learn myself.
I can help with everything from positioning, game sense, mechanics, team compositions, counters, and ult management and will gladly do any VOD review.
My discord is Gojira#1664 but feel free to post any questions in this thread.
Thanks. ^_^
 Hey there, I'm currently floating around 2000sr, and I'm just wondering if you have any tips for practising tracking? I tend to play dva and Zarya allot, and want to move onto sombra eventually, but I'm still held back a bit my Dodgy aim. Is there any routines you do to warm up, or any kind of mindset to hit the target? 
My FPS career consists of a year's worth of Counter-Strike experience and a couple months of OW, during which I took a break for a couple months and changed equipment and sensitivity several times, so my aim isn't the greatest. I think I'm at a place where I'm satisfied with my setup though. 

How can I improve my aim as McCree, Soldier, and Reaper? How can I deal with Tracer or Symmetra or baby D.va being impossible to hit?
Well can you give any Tips on Hanzo? 
When i play him ~12 Hours total i think, i got some games where it seems like i keep wrecking the whole enemy team solely. 
Then i have games where i can't hit s***. 
So can you give me some points on how to improve my aim in the long term with him?
Without having seen you play. I would say your biggest problem probably isn't tracking if you are playing Zarya and dva. More important skills with those characters are ability management e.g defense matrix and shielding and game sense. If you really have a big problem with tracking. I would recommend lowering your sensitivity, but tracking is usually a secondary problem
Without having seen you play. I would say your biggest problem probably isn't tracking if you are playing Zarya and dva. More important skills with those characters are ability management e.g defense matrix and shielding and game sense. If you really have a big problem with tracking. I would recommend lowering your sensitivity, but tracking is usually a secondary problem
Hey you can train pretty good in the practice range just for hitting a solid point on standing targets but also tracking with the bots which are moving. But best way to improve aim is to play FFA Deathmatch because you encounter short , medium and a bit long range fights. In Deathmatch just try your best aiming at the head. After few hours you aim will become muscle memory and you will get better , then just continue. To define your aim also play competitive so you encounter different scenarios.
Thats why people dont like hanzo mains. Hanzo is super inconsistent unless youre very good, and usually inconsistent within the same game. Youll get a triple kill at the beggining, not kill anything for 5 mins and then get a penta. And the first triple kill at the beggining emboldens hanzo to never switch when hes doing poorly
ah ok, i cant really get any videos atm because my computer cant handle recording and playing at the  same time ( i might just be using a bad programe idk) but what is a good accuracy percentage for those heros? 

VOD review flex player
Hey guys 
Looking for people who can watch my VOD and give me feedback what I can do better. 
I'm​ an off tank main 120 hs on Roadhog and Zarya each but I recently trying to flex in soloq.
Any help is appreciated.

https://youtu.be/ets9djKbeqwI will review this when I get off work in a few hours.

"Mains"
Okay so this is more of a discussion when it comes to how you choose your "Mains." 

Obviously this game promotes counters and flexing on to different roles depending on your team comp and the enemy's comp. 

But when it came to choosing your "main" in a role, like a Mercy main for healing, Soldier for DPS, or Winston as your main tank; did you choose this main because you found the character fun, or was it because you found you were better at that hero than others in that role? Winston and mercy because i cant aim for shit and i win a lot with them
I didn't choose the Hanzo main life, the Hanzo main life chose me.
- 4k Hanzo main
Lucio is just really fun to play and probably the most useful hero to know how to play well.
I picked Tracer as my main because she's rarely taken and I like the responsibility of knocking out the Mercy and carrying. (Sometimes I'm good enough to do it now. Frequently I'm not.)

I picked Winston as my second Hero because my brother plays D.Va, and I needed to be able to play a Tank that can solo Tank and also go after 2nd Capture Points on Offense. (I have trouble with 2nd CP Offense as Tracer. Zarya is not bad but you usually only get 1-2 shots at her Ult, and she can't solo Tank very well.)

I picked Lucio and Zen as my 3rd and 4th Heroes because everyone should at least know how to play a Healer. (This comment will be downvoted by a few DPS one-tricks, and that's okay.)

Sometimes I flex to Sombra if the other team runs Bastion, because she's so good at turning Bastion into a shitty Soldier.
I picked Lucio because I found the way I play him to be EXTREMELY rewarding for me, and getting those perfect plays is like heroin. 
I play Winston because my aim isn't good enough to counter a Shimada with anyone else, Rein because I'm a flex player and I don't know how to play Winston solo tank on Attack (any tips would be greatly appreciated!). Reaper is my main because I like to be alone from the team and go for picks and wipes, probably because of my Counter-Strike experience. I like Soldier because of that experience. I'm slowly adding the supports to my pool but I can say that I'm comfortable with Mercy and almost comfortable with Ana- working on Lucio and Zenyatta (any tips on them would be appreciated too) D.va because she's great for contesting on 2CP and she is forgiving with her DM and baby D.va and she has great mobility and the best burst damage in the game.

Edit: I'm 2200, but I'm still climbing. I was 2100 a couple days ago.
Zenyatta. OW is first FPS and I always played caster, long range squishy heroes in other games. I like the subtle influence. I really like characters who are what I call gap fillers... dps/heals/utility makes him effective when playing with random people you may not trust. 

Lucio for the AOE (love aoe skills in all games) 

Soldier because jack of all trades but my aim is meh 

Dva for the defense and flexibility. Protecting healers like zen and mercy is really rewarding having played them so much. 

Rein just because the giant 2k shield is just so valuable in practically every situation and his ult is oh so juicy when you time it right. 




Used to be a cree main, but played more tracer last season due to meta. I like leftclicking stuff.
I gravitate towards Zenyatta because I notice the team does better with shotcalling, usually no one else will do it if I don't, and his abilities naturally lend him to it:

>- Focus Winston

>- why

> - discorded 

>- k, gotcha

vs

>- Focus Winston

>- why

>- cause he's diving me and i said so

>- well fuck off then
For me its took some time to figure out my main. I knew that i would play DD in OW but had not specific hero in mind so started trying different ones, Soldier and Tracer appealed to me the most, so i spend good amount of time playing Tracer. Only DD hero that really turned me off been Pharah, back in the day her Rocket Launcher made me laugh from how pathetic of a weapon it appeared to me, artistically she looked "clunky" with those Mecha Wings at her back and overall i found myself always dealing with Pharah very fast and efficiently as soldier or tracer. Back then i always been astonished how someone can like this sort of a champion or main it, using that slow weapon seemed like self torture compared to fast and precise Soldier Rifle, secondary abilities like caustic blast made no impression at all and ultimate didnt seem any better than of other champions if not worse.

 Some time passed and i started playing comp games, reached my SR wall with tracer and found that at certain maps i cannot play her to full extent of her abilities. I started to have less and less impact in comp games as tracer compared to QP and my soldier Tracking seemed not to meet the standards of my league too. At certain point i started thinking what is most "Safe" champion to play at any given map, champion that if needed can control various elevations, can flanks easily, hold chokes  and overall be strong pick at this particular map. Can remember that moment, got tilted after loosing couple of games in a row, and thought "Fk it, tracer sux on this map, my soldier is kinda meh, ill try Pharah she seems like reasonably safe pick here", I did not even play more that 2 QP games on her, but for some reason at the time it seemed like acceptable idea to go in Comp with that experience. The more i player Pharah the more she appealed to be far more satisfying than Tracer, or at least i had impression that i died less on Pharah and thus made more positive impact while also being able to perform same functions, killing sups, flanking etc. 

Now Fast Forwards to present time i have half total time played on Pharah. Its amazing how my perception shifted from what i used to think about her  back in the day and now.For some reason i just dont get bored queuing 10 games in a row playing one and the same champion over and over again. Each match seem engaging, every team fight feels new, every duel with Soldier/Cree/Widow is like a whole other minigame you can enjoy while doing main thing.  So thats been the story, took me around 80 hrs to settle on Main for now, i do plan to explore other heroes (sombra probably) in the future, but right now its just Fun playing Pharah. 
Before Overwatch, I loved playing Dark Souls without a shield.  I love being nimble, circling around my opponent, reading their movements, and dodge rolling each attack.  I love the rush of always being a single mistake away from death.  And, of course, it taught me stamina management, which I easily transferred into blink management.

In real life, I've always wanted the ability to teleport.  Every time I'm walking down the hall, I always thing "I wish I could just teleport to the end of that hallway."  It sounds silly, but it's always something I wanted.  Imagine how awesome it felt when I realized I could do *exactly that* as Tracer?  After playing her, I would subconsciously try to "blink" to the end of hallways, and it would just remind me of how much of a fit she is for me.

So, yeah.  A superpower that I've always wished I could have, with mechanics that I love and am already familiar with, the andrenaline from being on the edge of death, and endless opportunity to just *absolutely dunk on* enemies.  Now mix that with her unending positivity, enchanting accent, and *absolute adorableness*!  How can I *not* be a Tracer main?
Chose to be a junkrat main because he is the most fun I have with and everything feels natural when I play him. However I still play genji and mccree sometimes.
I've had to flex a lot this season off of dps to support, and I've found I'm a good Zen. 66% win rate this season so far. He scratches the dps itch and provides utility and healing. Plus when I instalock him 9/10 times I get another healer. Helps to ensure a decent comp. I grouped with RL friends and placed low gold from mid Plat last year, and I've found I can carry with him. 
Improving, beating a challenge are my source of fun. I've never played fps multiplayer since Overwatch, so I main heroes skill-based but overall easy: McCree (who became my main just because I had fun playing Ana and I wanted to be better Ana after some aim training), Orisa (fun kit), Pharah, Zenyatta.
Zen bc he's the hardest to aim with
I main Ana because landing filthy nades and sleeps is the most satisfying thing to me.

Positioning has helped me flex onto other supports and aim helped me learn Hitscan, so now I play Soldier, Widow, Zen and Lucio as well.  
I knew I'd be playing Mercy from the very start. I always like healing and Mercy is more focused on healing and support than anyone else. I was already used to playing The Medic in TF2, so the transition was quite natural. 

When I wanted to branch out, I focused on the other healers. After that I picked up Zarya (and later Orissa) because they are the most support focused tanks.
How to develop a main:

1. A hero is fun to you

2. you will play him a lot, because the hero is fun

3. You will get good on this hero because you play him a lot.

4. You will out-perform others, bacause you are good at your hero. 


Tracer is the most fun to me, making plays with her feels really skillful and will pump out the dopamin it feels like you are on drugs. My hands are always shaking after a good round.
Widow, Tracer, McCree, Ana. I like playing things that when you get a kill it's usually because of skill, not luck. That and deleting enemy supports as Tracer is nut-worthy. 
People tend to like things they are good at. Therefore most People just main characters they have fun with because they are of Impact with that character. Those not having fun anyway tend to pick dps because the feel the urge to make up for their Team but in fact screw it up because they don´t do what they are good at.


I for my part am good in knowing what happens around me and what will happen soon. That qualifies me as Supports and tanks and Pharah. Supports are more fun so I most likely pick those.

Zarya, because there are few sounds as satisfying as her left click at full energy. BZZZZZZZZRRRRRRRM!
It's who you enjoy playing. Who has their best game if they're forced to be a hero they don't want to be playing and aren't having fun?
I generally flex but have a big fat soft spot for bastion right now. Doesn't always fit well in a comp but when it does, it's so damn satisfying cutting people down like leaves with the turret then duelling them as bastion76 when they come back looking for revenge.

Bastion is also a great 'fuckit' pick when you get put on one of those teams where no-one bothers to look out for each other, since you're so self-sufficient.
Started out as a Dva main, ended up playing Mercy/Ana as my two main heros because

a. Mercy is fun when you learn to play aggressively with her (which is also why I'm super excited for the changes) Making a flanker chase you all over the map because your abusing your GA is so satisfying and it pisses them off

b. Landing grenades on four people and sleeping ulting characters and basically negating their ults is the best feeling. 

I've always like characters who do a ton of work, but don't take the spotlight in games. 
I was originally going to be a Mercy main, but when I first started playing her bendy beams made me dizzy. After a couple of months, I guess I adjusted to the FPS point of view, and I can play her just fine now, but I've already practiced and learned how to play other characters. Zen is probably my best character, and I didn't like him at all. I played him only because Lucio seemed really mechanically intensive, and I couldn't play Mercy (then). I started playing Lucio because I often used him to explore maps (in empty custom games), and after a while, his mechanics didn't feel so difficult. I started playing Orisa because often nobody wants to tank, and she was the easiest, and I started playing a bit of DVa because sometimes both healers and Orisa are taken. 

My favorite characters are Sombra and Pharah, but I'm really bad at them.
DVa because I like going "nyoom" with the rocket boosters
Junkrat is my main, with Orisa and Mercy as secondaries when I can't play Junkrat. While I find Junkrat a ton of fun, Orisa and Mercy are more chore picks for when the team needs them. I don't find them as fun to play. I chose these three because their play styles clicked with me, but it took me a while to figure out what about their play style I found appealing. I don't have great aim, but that was only part of it. They're all reactive heroes, who either linger at the back or sides (or in Orisa's case, where ever she's guarding) reacting to things that either the enemy or my own team is doing. I don't have to decide to initiate attacks with many of these characters, I don't have to be the one at the front of the fight trying to bully the enemies back. They all have abilities that let me support and protect my team in a reactive way, with abilities that either let me escape bad situations (Junrkat and Mercy) or survive longer (Orisa).
I chose mei because she is uncommon, versatile, self reliant, and just so damn adorable. 
I became a Mercy main because no one would play support or always said they didn't like it/can't. Rather than have people begrudgingly play it and perform poorly I chose to fill it myself. After experimentation I found I liked Mercy the most as I performed better on her with much higher healing numbers on average.  Nearly 500 hrs later I feel I am one of the best Mercy players on ps4.  I feel confident playing her in most situations, as long as the tanks/dps counterpick for us to win.

I later learned Winston because I got tired of no one playing him to deal with flankers, so I would swap off solo healer in quick play and play him and carry.  I feel I can do really well on him, GM level, but tank mains probably can perform better than me.  He is definitely my best tank.

Almost fully giving up on dps due to people's lack of filling support/tank I focused on learning Lucio a lot last season and I can already play Dva.  Last week or so I have been working on Rein and notice the improvement.  I feel like you need around 70 hrs on a hero to have a good grasp of whether or not you are good with them, so I only feel very strongly about my Mercy play and my Winston play.

I love playing Mercy despite people's claims she is boring.  The jukes and the winning are something I enjoy.  Saving the team is my specialty.  I keep playing her mostly out of necessity, but I enjoy it.  I play regularly with a group of about 10 people now, most top 500 or capable of it.  We 6 stack and fight other GM stacks in QP most nights and try weird comps sometimes.

I miss playing the heroes I originally wanted to main (Widow and Mei), but my aim has deteriorated a bit and with a lack of great supports on my friendslist I just go with what I got.  I started playing more dps solo in FFA now.  Enjoy it too.
I can relate to this. I started maining Hanzo after 40 hours of learning Genji. No idea why. I never wanted to be a Hanzo main, so much grief for no reason. But his play style clicked. Sniper with awesome mobility? I'll take it 


Good man
Winston as solo tank is quite different from a combo with Dva who can assist you when you dive. I will give you two tips:

1. Don't force yourself on killing guys. It will be very difficult. You are a big hairy monkey and have no Zarya bubble and no Dva shield to give you that littel more time to kill. It might work on a Widow or lonesome Hanzo but generally, your team will have to rely on DPS more.

2. Use your jump to disengage. You are better of walking or dropping on the enemy team from above instead of jumping on them. Yeah, you loose the landing damage but you will live much longer.
you mean "lul git gud and don't let him dive you"
Can't tell if serious..
I am serious. I'm also on console. 

Been stuck for a long time...
Hello guys,
Been playing since release and generally sit mid to high platinum in SR. I'm a support main that has been learning to play tank a bit. Last December I could not get out of plat to save my life meanwhile all my friends ended up finishing diamond (the ones that played comp anyways). This tilted me to the point of taking a season off of overwatch. I hated the game, and myself too much to play it. In the last week's of season 5 I started playing again and am having the same issue of being stuck in plat. I really like overwatch and it's helped me through many tough times but I don't want to spend another season yo-yoing in platinum. What do I need to do?I've been playing since release with Season 1 ended me at 53 (close to low Plat), Season 2 at High Plat, then Season 3 at Low Masters, afterwards Season 4 up to now, I've stopped at Mid Diamond.

Before Season 2, I used to play solo 100% of the time and I had few friends playing Overwatch. I started playing tanks like Reinhardt and other offtanks such as Zarya and D.Va. There are times when I'm stuck at ELO hell because of instances of games having bad teammates, and less communication because of my usual silent nature and sometimes my teammates don't communicate back.

After Season 2, I started participating small, local Overwatch LAN Tourneys at my city. This changed me when I meet new people to play with me competitively, and thus gaining new friends. In Season 3, when I started joining with competitive friends (tourney-mates), I initially increase my gap to learn to play my mains properly and communicate more. It was on Season 3 that I get out of Platinum, playing with my competitive friends.

At Season 4, my competitive friends started less playing together, and as well soon, real life started to hamper down my playing hours. Nonetheless, we had considerable amount of games. This was the time I started learning hard supports like Ana and Zenyatta because the heck of it. I remember my team participating at Overwatch SEA wherein my tank plays is not doing well, and then I called out to switch to play Ana, and I did exceptionally well at the end. Although, we haven't qualified to the next round, my individual progress went so high, and I was happy. Let's continue to my competitive ranking. Having real life priorities, and my competitive friends, too were busy, led me more playing at solo. The skills I learned on playing tournaments, led me to stuck consistently at least Mid Diamond at the end of Seasons 4 and 5.

tl;dr: I shared my own competitive Overwatch story, from a solo warrior in Plat, to a team player at least on the Mid Diamond. My advice to you is, although individual improvement (mechanics and communication) is a vital key to climb out of ELO hell, do not underestimate in playing ranked with friends, so reach out to them and play with them if you can, to climb out together. :)
First I'd have to ask what platform and where you are. I'm a specialist in sustainable climbing (1 promotion every 2 seasons, SR finishes roughly 250 points higher than I started). Maybe if you share some stats I can take a look at comment? I'm only a high plat flex player myself (I will hit Diamond this season), so take my words with a grain of salt but I think I can look and help. :)
I should have mentioned I typically play in a duo. I stopped because they got diamond and I couldn't. I want to get diamond solo. I'm at 2711 after going 50/50 in placements and getting placed 200SR lower than what I finished season 5 at. I'm seriously considering being fucking done.
PC, US servers. My tag is Melkor#11101 for stat lookups.
I don't want to offend or insult you for anything, but if you consistently stayed at Platinum for a long time, more likely that means your individual skills are on par with Platinum players. It doesn't end there actually, there is one factor that makes player generally perform bad at some point in games, ultimately leads to dropping SR harder than the usual.

Sure, people have some good games because people themselves performed well individually, but people have some bad games too, because generally, they haven't performed well.

What makes the player perform bad at some point in games? Instead of looking at the individual performance during matches, mentality is one big-factor that is usually not attended. One very hot topic about mentality during games is "tilting".

In general, tilting brings an individual making throws and less impactful plays because people making tilt generally having less focus on playing at main objectives in games.

There are some important questions to take note. What makes you tilt before and during your games? How do you deal with tilt such as maintaining a coping mechanism? In your case, you started tilting when you saw your friends reaching Diamond. It may have brought your negative mentality before the match starts. During in-game, I'm not sure whether you tilt when situations went bad.

One common thing that people deal with tilting is to relax before and after matches, like stopping on playing competitive matches when one doesn't have relaxed mind.
Alright, looking at your stats this season (others aren't visible), you seem to be tanking quite nicely. Judging by your obj. time stats you pick DVa to babysit the payload/point which results in a higher amount of deaths than you have with Orisa. Your elis with DVa are a bit on the low end but that probably has to do with you keeping to the objective (also resulting in higher obj kills). I don't know if you receive support but instead of sticking with DVa, maybe Zarya would be a better choice if you need to babysit the payload. You have the regenerating shields, the are control ult (your mecha nuke kills are low which indicates you use it more as a 'second life' so no need for that anyhow) and once the DM nerf comes online, DVas DM won't last longer than Zaryas bubble. Additionally a glowing Zarya is scarier than a DVa. 

Orisa is a bit tricky because she is heavily team dependent. If you don't have a supporter focusing you or lots of fire power helping you, you're basically going to get shat on by Reaper, Genji, Tracer, Junk and the list goes on... Here your stats are quite nice, but your accuracy is lacking. Maybe try going into a custom game with head shot only bots so you learn to pre aim a little more? Orisas bullets are a bit wonky since they buffed the speed in the last patch, as they now move faster than Zens orbs.
A less team dependent alternative to Orisa would be Mei. You can self heal, your barrier is replaced by a wall. Your rpm/dps takes a dive from 12rps/132dps to 0.8rps/60dps (disregarding dmg fo and hs) but you pose a huge threat to many of the heroes who counter Orisa and you gain one of the strongest ults in game and it is super easy to charge (hs = 7% charge).

Now for your Junk stats: Hella impressive. The only thing that really bugs me here is you seem to ignore the objective entirely. I'm guessing your team mates were too uninterested in the objective as well which resulted in your loss with him?

Your Mercy stats: Also very impressive, though your rez seems a bit off as well as your support for people on objective (assuming there were people on point).

Overall it seems like in your games you don't have anybody who wants to be on point so maybe try communicating that more with your team mates?
And my second main issue would be that your hero picks seem very team dependent (both rely on supporters for healing and dds for fire support/kills). I'd recommend going more with Zarya/Mei instead of DVa/Orisa.

Hope that helps. :)
I generally try to stop playing after two losses in a row. You say my skills are not on diamond level or else I would be there, what should I do?
I'll give that a try! My aim is something that's been hurting me a bit. I have a background in mobas and used to play them on extremely high sensitivity and have recently made the switch to a larger mousepad and much lower sensitivity and so far my aim has improved around 5%. Definitely know I could work on that more.
Well, your aim with both Mercy and Zen seems on point. But Orisa shoots at 72m/s while Zen and Mercy both are a good bit slower (66m/s and 40m/s) which could be throwing you off. Mei is even faster (88m/s) so that'd take some getting used to, but I think (especially if you soloq) you're better off being less dependent of your team. :)
Yeah haha I spent a lot of time on Zen in earlier seasons and got overly used to his shooting.

Appropriate Overwatch Callouts
I find that most players either callout unnecessary things or don't callout enough in Overwatch, myself included. I decided to make a list of generic and character exclusive callouts. I did leave out request callouts to individuals such as "Rein shield for me" or "D.VA matrix me" because it's very specific and some players may get annoyed. 
Anything in parentheses is to be filled with the appropriate noun in game. They are also intentionally short to avoid cluttering voice coms, but it's usually alright to expand a bit on them. Comment if you feel I missed anything or if you believe any are unnecessary.

Generic Callouts:
(Hero) low
Push up
Watch out for (Ult, Ability)
(Ult Combo)
Focus (Hero)
Stall point
(Hero) (Location)
(Hero) no kit
(Hero) on our (Hero)
Flanking (Location)
Don't peak/poke
Break (Hero) Shield
Take (location)

Hero Specific Callouts:
Genji no SwiftStrike
Reaper no WraithForm
Biotic Field (Location)
(Hero) Hacked
Tracer no Recall
Junkrat Mine/Trap (Location)
Mei no Iceblock
Mei no Wall
Armor pack (Location)
Torb Turret (Location)
Widow no hook
D.VA no Matrix
Shield going down
Hog no hook
Jumping on (Hero)
Zarya no Bubble
Anna no Sleep
Anna no Nade
Speed boosting
Sym Turrets/(Ult) (Location)
(Hero) Discorded

If I never hear the word "me" again in solo queue comp it'll be too soon. I have no idea who "me" is. By the time I need to realize who you are and look up at the tiny portrait instead of forward at the game I'm busy playing, the portrait's gone.


People (myself included) need to get more comfortable speaking in the third person. In English it is naturally uncomfortable to say something like "Please heal Genji" while you are the one playing Genji, but this is for more informative to your healer.

"Me" doesn't help when the sound is coming over comms and not directly from the character in 3D space around the listener.
Regarding the enemy hero specific callouts like Reaper no wrath or Genji no dash, what are the expectations? Are you supposed to drop your position and responsibility (hunting healer, peeling for team heals, etc.) to look for this hero and focus him down in the seconds before his ability is up or he receives support? 


I only ask because these seem like situational awareness issues. You should see or hear Genji use his dash. I feel like for those who actually need to hear that Genji is vulnerable from voice coms it won't really do any good.


To me voice coms is more for short term planning. For example "We're gonna take the left balcony and use a Rein-Reaper combo." or "Zen its getting late in the round lets use Trans for a push onto the point." 


Even a "proper" callout like "Tracer is on our Zen" is often not able to be acted on in the 3 seconds it takes her to unload 2 clips. The more useful callout, to me, is "Tracer is focusing our backline. We need X hero to hang back and peel" or something along those lines. 
Try to do call outs for people that play in multi language?

I never get a team full with people that understand my language (Portuguese, Brazil)

And since I play mainly Lúcio - Zenyatta (And now going Junkrat  since people stopped all the hate) I always practiced call outs, here is what I should do:

"Tracer com discórdia no flanco esquerdo"

"Tracer Discorded at our left flank"

"Tracer con Discordia en nuestro flanco izquierdo"

What I do:

"KILL TRACER LEFT! ESQUERDA! ISQUIERDA! KILL KILL!!! WAOTH@#)QFGH"
Here's a callouts guide i wrote: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oQOFdi1Qo2luEv58Dms0L89tQneHmN0uojmsD3oaOiw/edit#heading=h.pjyarqkfgtxo hope it helps!
I think in lower SR games, making callouts can sometimes hurt more than it helps. By the time someone processes and reacts to what you've said, it might be too late.
On the note of callouts, does anyone else use "I need healing" to inform the team you have to retreat? I use it like that in 3v3/TDM environments when I'm being relied on to hold a position and keep the enemy occupied, whether that's tanking, distracting them through a flank, or just happen to take a sniper shot to the body while approaching what we thought was a safe route.

With the team I play with, they all understand what it means and react accordingly. Every so often though we play with randoms who get extremely frustrated and say something like "We don't have a healer" or "You are the healer", followed by some generic insult towards my general intelligence. That seems more rare than people reacting appropriately to it though; I feel it's intuitive that if someone says "I need a healer" and there isn't one around, then it's clear they're in a situation they need to retreat from and will act accordingly.

To be clear, I don't spam it. I'm no Genji main.
The worst shot call in my opinion is

"**X** is ONE"

Then he was with 130 HP left

I wish people did proper calls on weaken enemies like:

"Half" "1/3" "1/4" "3 Bars" "2 Bars" "1 Bar"

I trust way more in an "1 Bar Genji on our Left" than "Genjis is ONE, literally ONE, get the genji because he is ONE" (half a second latter) "Oh, wait, he is full"
What's worse for me is

Person 1: "(do action) over there!"

Person 2: "Where?"

Person 1: "Over here, idiot!"

Person 2: "Where is here?"

Person 3: "Over there, dumbass"

No matter how much you point at your screen, I can't see it. Give me a goddamn landmark.
ORB ME! lol.. yah, give me a sec to figure out who you are.. or just tell you to talk again so i can look at your little pic that pops up when you talk.. tards.
Maybe that's why pros are always whining for like 10 seconds.
I don't know, there are situations where it could make sense. Like if a soldier and you agree to nanovisor, and he says over voice "nano me" you have a good idea of what to do next.
Personally I don't see the problem with it. When someone talks the "talk icon" (top left) shows the hero, it literally takes just a glance to know which hero is talking. Furthermore, after a couple of times looking at the icon you should be able to relate the voice with the hero easily.
Tracer backline  
Peel tracer zen  
If I make it any longer than that I'm usually dead before my team can respond.  
But yes I agree that some of OP's callouts aren't actionable. Anything you say on mic in the heat of battle takes brain activity for your team to parse that they could be using to concentrate on the task at hand, so weigh that relative advantage.  
In between team fights you can do longer form stuff like planning ult combos, which paths to take, who to focus first, problem heroes, etc.
Should you focus that character? Not necessarily, depends on your role, position, etc.

I agree that it's about situation awareness, but you can't be aware of everything, whether due to the chaos of battle, or simply line of sight issues. Having a teammate relay a piece of information can be very helpful--even in the short term.

One example, if you're tracer returning from having grabbed a health pack (and therefore can't see the current skirmish), when you hear "McCree no flash", you might decide to be more aggressive. If you didn't hear that, you might want to spot the opposing McCree first, and not knowing if he has flash up, you might wait, or make a less aggressive play.

But you can easily think of others. I play Zen a fair bit, and one thing I personally worry about is Winston jumping on me. Also, since one of Winston's roles is to jump snipers, he spends a fair bit of time out of my line of sight (maybe that's my bad? I dunno). So when I see a wild Winston appear in  my line of sight, followed by "Winston no jump", I can be a little braver and don't have to immediately hide, or necessarily start moving towards my backline DPS helper... At least not immediately.
>I only ask because these seem like situational awareness issues. You should see or hear Genji use his dash. I feel like for those who actually need to hear that Genji is vulnerable from voice coms it won't really do any good.

This is an unhelpful attitude. Not everyone is in a position to see or hear everything that every enemy does. You could be looking in a different direction, and some sounds drown out other sounds. Even if someone on your team is unaware of X simply because they're tunnel-visioned or just generally unobservant, it is still useful and in the best interests of the team to inform them.
It probably would've been a good idea for that built-in callout to be "I'm wounded" or something instead of "I need healing" in the first place.
I feel like there's too much potential for confusion there -- I'd rather just day "hey I'm pulling back to $LOC." Otherwise your team has to do some mind reading to figure out whether you want healing where you are, whether you're telling them you're pulling back, whether you're telling them they should pull back, or whether you're genji.

In general, if you mean a thing, say that thing -- nothing more, nothing less. It's too easy to confuse people otherwise.
"On the left!"

"The room's a circle."

"IT'S ON THE LEFT SIDE OF THE CIRCLE BY THE CORNER"

"**THERE ARE NO CORNERS IN A CIRCLE**"


"If words of command are not clear and distinct, if orders are not thoroughly understood, then the general is to blame." - Sun Tzu

I try to give out generalized landmarks when I issue a call out. Wished there was a listing of agreed upon standardized landmarks to use. The that 
On the beginning of a game I say to everyone
"I don't know who you are, so press X when you need heals, if you need something else, say on voice then press Z sometimes"

If I see that not everyone is on voice, I say to press G instead of Z, since someone could take it as an advice to combo ults
Could someone PLEASE just heal Stylosa already

(e: jkjk he's cool)
Yup.

"You're powered up, get in there"

"BWEEEEEEEEEET ZEWEEEEEEEOOOOOOOP"
>When someone talks the "talk icon" (top left) shows the hero, it literally takes just a glance to know which hero is talking.

...

> By the time I need to realize who you are and look up at the tiny portrait instead of forward at the game I'm busy playing, the portrait's gone.

When the message is "Heal me" the glance doesn't happen in time. It's extra silly because there's a key on your keyboard that sends a "Heal me" message in your character's voice, puts a message in chat and sticks a giant icon on your head. 


Agree with you. And yeah, in my experience I miss as many in game cues based on cluttered coms as anything else so that may cloud my judgement. 


Things like the whisk of an Ana dart or the 2 steps Reaper takes before dropping on you with ult are faint! I can infrequently act on them based on coms in the moment. Rather, I find it much more useful to hear "Reaper teleport above, watch for ult." Gets the brain ready to react to the in game cue.
I appreciate the Tracer example; it's reasonable and common enough. I wonder if I may be playing some situations too conservatively without this info.  


That being said, I'll give you the Zen example as well. Need to keep them orbs rolling after all.


Still though, does that mean that I should announce relevant cool downs for every opponent? That's prob one every second or so. Or is there some prioritization I should be following based on team comp? 
> IT'S ON THE LEFT SIDE OF THE CIRCLE BY THE CORNER

I have ptsd from this exact phrase
Left/right should be assumed aligned to the main entrance the team would enter a room from. The room may be circular, but there's a general direction your team would approach from based on map design; that's 'back/behind', the opposite side is 'ahead/forward'. 'Left' and 'right' are relative to that direction.

If you can easily keep track of relative direction in your head, that should work well. If you can't, you're probably experiencing larger issues with situational awareness than just knowing which way left/right is in a call-out.
If I say left it is always the left side looking from our spawn to the objective.
What is G and Z? I never use those.. just x sometimes and then the wheel for everything else.
> ...

I see 3 points but still I don't see your point with this comment.

> When the message is "Heal me" the glance doesn't happen in time. It's extra silly because there's a key on your keyboard that sends a "Heal me" message in your character's voice, puts a message in chat and sticks a giant icon on your head. 

I agree with you that the communication wheel is better to ask for heals but the point that I'm actually trying to make is that using the pronoun "me" in voice is, in general, perfectly fine. 

For example: if I, as a healer, said "They are attacking **me**, help!", I **do** expect my teammates to have enough short time memory to connect my voice with the upper left hero-icon **after I've been talking with my team during the whole "set up time" (and also during the match)**.
>u're probably experiencing larger issues with situational awareness than just knowing which way left/right is in a call-out.

Or you've been chased/booped halfway around a round room a couple of times and you've lost track of which way the spawn is. "Balcony" and "Stairs" are more useful info in those cases. The doors are also colour-coded. 
X = ask for heal

Z = says how many ult charge you have

G = understood (if you look at the point it says "we must atk/defend the objective)(if you look at one teammate he will be the only hearing the understood)

You can also change everything to your own way at any given moment as you please
Well, I don't. Unless you have a ~~funny~~distinct accent, or if I've been playing with you for months, you're Generic American Video Game Voice 3F and there's nothing remarkable about you that I'm going to learn in the next five minutes. 

WoW guildmate: "Sorry this is only week 2 on a 20-hour raid schedule, still learning people's voices."

Overwatch rando: "I talked like 90 seconds ago why don't you remember me forever?"

But sure if you have an eidetic memory for voices and you don't use it then you're a jerk.
If you've lost track of where you are he's exactly right about situation awareness issues
Thanks,  yah I forgot that I use z all the time. But noe the others.
Then I guess it is a regional problem... 

I play on the EU server, I don't have an eidetic memory, and yet I can make the simple association "this voice = this guy" for the 5 people (almost always **less**) in voice, for the (*apparently* astonishingly long) time of ~15mins of continuous conversation....

But hey!, each to their own capabilities, right?
>I play on the EU server

Do you say that to announce the condescension in the rest of your post, or to excuse it?

I find the caterwauling 14 year olds who shout useless messages into their mics quite indistinct. If you really want me to remember your name, leave your mic open and glorp your saliva around in your mouth while hammering your keyboard with a brick :)
> Do you say that to announce the condescension in the rest of your post, or to excuse it?

No, I'm saying it in response to this:

> Unless you have a **~~funny~~distinct accent**, or if I've been playing with you for months, you're Generic **American** Video Game Voice 3F and there's nothing remarkable about you that I'm going to learn in the next five minutes. 

So, my remark was to highlight that maybe it is easier to identify different persons on the EU servers because it is likely the team have different accents.

> I find the caterwauling 14 year olds who shout useless messages into their mics quite indistinct. If you really want me to remember your name, leave your mic open and glorp your saliva around in your mouth while hammering your keyboard with a brick :)

Lol, it seems that you are getting personally offended for what I said and to be honest I don't see why. Then again, it is pointless to argue with strangers on the internet.

I made my point, you answered mostly with offenses. I think it is pretty obvious who is acting like a 14 yo right now. Good day to you~~, sir~~. :-)
>So, my remark was to highlight that maybe it is easier to identify different persons on the EU servers because it is likely the team have different accents.

See that's what I thought at first. 

>Lol, it seems that you are getting personally offended for what I said and to be honest I don't see why.

> yet I can make the **simple** association "this voice = this guy" for the 5 people (almost always less) in voice, for the (**apparently astonishingly long**) time of ~15mins of continuous conversation....

Kinda makes it sound like you take me for a goldfish or simpleton, but it's entirely possible I'm reading too much into it. My bad if so. You say you meant no harm, why not take you at your word? It's just the internet :). As you were. Sorry about the friendly fire.

It's also possible your experience is different from mine. Most of what I hear in the mic is unprintable gibberish. 

Can we at least agree that people who turn off PTT and subject us to their digestive adventures are savages?



To get from Silver to Gold.. Simple
I'm not going to tell you what everybody else does and leave you open ended.. just do this:
> 1. Play a Hero that YOU can kill 2-3 people every time before dying and without hiding like a pansy.. if you can't then go tank/support and help those who can.
> 2. Protect your healer, literally stay attached to the hip with your healer for the first 3-4 minutes and learn their game sense and map positioning and most of all, learn to protect them.
> 3. Be flexable (yah i know you heard this, but hear me out) but to a point, DO NOT play a Hero you can't position well with or don't know their abilities well or can't aim with.. This is suicide, if they all scream for a Mercy, then tell them who you CAN play in the support area instead (assuming you can't play Mercy well or get picked to easily)

>> Knowing your weak Hero's is just as important as knowing your strong ones. and honestly if you are getting 1 kill before you die everytime, look to see if you are being hard countered, if you don't switch to counter them, then YOU are the issue. If you notice a teammate being countered pretty hard and they refuse to switch (assuming you told them this), then YOU need to switch to counter that Hero that is giving your team issues. You should always get yourself to a point where you are getting 2-3 kills per life or more, if you aren't then you need to do more practicing or find a new Hero that does better with your skill set and play style.

(I'm sure this works for Bronze too and can get you out of Gold as well to Plat.. but the lower you go, the more important this is, the higher you go, the better you need to be at your skills/Aim + all these + Hero targeting)

>> TLDR - MUST GET 2-3 Kills per life and learn to follow/protect your healer.1. Don't flex.  It seems counter-intuitive but people don't play as a team in Silver. 
2. Play heroes that 1v1 and 1v2 well.   People don't group up in Silver, so you'll find yourself in these situations. 
3. Kill the enemy healer.  There's usually only one at this rank.  Keep the healer dead and the rest of the team is easy pickings.  Enemy healer may even switch off in frustration.  IMO, Pharah and Tracer are the best at doing this in lower ranks.  But even if you aren't playing a flanker, you can make an effort to kill them and call out locations. 
4. Wait for teammate(s) after you respawn.  The rest of your team might not group but **you** can at least team up.   You should spam group up to get others thinking the same thing. 
5. Stay near the point and on KoTH maps try very hard to win the control first. 
6. Don't waste your ult when most of your team is dead.  You aren't going to 1v6 the other team. 
7. In the rare cases when the red team has 2 healers, they likely only have one tank.  Kill him and the team also falls apart. 
Step one: Learn to play Zarya

Step two: ????

Step three: profit until diamond.

My tip to get out of low gold is way easier. Just learn how to farm your ult, and then make sure you know the right time to use it. It always surprises me when it's 2 minutes into a match, and everyone is just playing super aggro. It's like, "I know you have your ult, but they do too... why did you decide to 1v6 their whole team away from your tanks and healers? Or "why did you decide to use your ult into the Dva DM?" Some people are bad at this game because they don't understand it.
Thank you. I appreciate this post
or, just not make dumb mistakes such as leaving objective, not pushing cart and try to go for kills that you cant get immediately, staying in objective when you dont need to"
most players under master just make these kind of mistakes too much and these really do build up to a loss
I have very simple advice for getting out of bronze/silver: play Bastion. I swear to god, no one knows how to counter at these ranks and he got me to gold in no-time :')
I've spent most of my time in silver or gold, and in my experience most teams naturally try to go with a 2-2-2 comp, at least until things start to fall apart and everyone switches to DPS out of frustration. Point #4 is huge though...trickling is so bad at these ranks as is panic-ulting (#6).
I think it's best to play heroes that are pretty self sufficient, like Roadhog, Zarya, Soldier, Tracer, Lucio, Dva. Because you cannot expect everyone to work together, even if you try. So having a bit of self-sustain plus a bit of damage output can make you the pivot point your team can lever their heroes with. Edit: You still have to play good...
Step 1 play zarya. 

Step 2 bubble diving tracer who immediately recalls

Step 3. Gain 0 charge. 

Step 4 dive yourself to gain charge. 

Step 5 get 1 kill and die

Step 6. Blame healers and dps

Step 7. Repeat with all golds and complain about team. 

Step 8. Repeat. 
Started at 1300 last season as a Zarya main. Currently at 2100 in a month and a half. 

The grind continues, but it's working. 
Yah that's true, lower level players have no ult management or understanding.. a D.Va DM can ruin everything and she is in almost every game now, as she is meta. So get DVA out of suit, tell the team you are going to ult as soon as that happens and then follow through with good positioning.. hell even at lower ranks you don't need to combo or anything, just doing a proper ult gets you 2-4 kills and then you just win, or at the least take the point.
>> Side note, I placed with an old account when i started OW and haven't played much on it sense i use my new one. It placed me (even though i went 8-1-1 and played at plat/dia level with soldier/tracer and crushed people) 100 higher than where i left off, which was in the 1600's in S3, so it put me at 1710 or so, lol. I played on it just to have fun and see how Silver plays, because it's been so long and i decided to put these tips in there.. because i think these can get you out of silver for sure.
> Some people are bad at this game because they don't understand it.

You mean this isn't an Unreal Tournament TDM simulator? I thought I was getting good SR gains because I always have the most kills. 

Mercy main btw! /S
Yup
honestly, I think if you know how to stand up out of turret mode and actually heal yourself, plus change your location and even halfass tracking will kill everybody in silver. 
>I've spent most of my time in silver or gold, and in my experience most teams naturally try to go with a 2-2-2 comp

I've been stuck in silver since I picked up Overwatch on console a 2-3 months ago.

I solo queue and it is rare for me to see 2-2-2.  When we get at least two healers or two tanks and a Mercy, our side usually wins.
To be fair, if nothing's dying except my team and I'm feeling confident I can actually get some kills or no one is focusing the most troublesome enemy hero, why *wouldn't* I switch and try and make a difference?
This is too fucking accurate man 
Those damned healers and dps!
Lol, so true. And when you land that dream-grav and nobody cares... sad times. You obviously complain about that extensively too.

Then maybe switch to Symmetra.
If you're talking about being a healer to a team that just dies.. yes, at this point being a healer to a team that doesn't make good decisions is a horrible thing. nothing hurts more that rez'ing a team that dies or just can't get the kills even when you heal them consistently. at this point, you could just switch to whatever you think will help the team more or help isolate the issue, let somebody else pick up healer and maybe your switch will make the difference.
Well he skipped /u/glembo s step one.

Does not work that way.
Yeah that's what I was going for.

Is Zen a valid pick if your team needs DPS?
So last night I was queuing some competitive when we were on attack on Route 66. We had a Rein, D.Va, Ana, and I went Soldier. Seeing we needed another secondary healer, one person went Lucio.

Leaving us with one last slot. Our team needed a second DPS along with Soldier, so I suggested a Genji, but to my surprise the last dude went Zen *as DPS*. So basically our second DPS was Zen.

Is this valid? I know Zen has a very high damage output for a healer but can he be chosen purely as a DPS? The Zen player was pretty good too and ended up shredding their tanks, and we won the game.Zenyatta main here. If we need dps I'll play zen more effectively than Soldier/mcree/reaper/pharah. Working on them but still way better with zenny 

Allows lucio to stay on speed and play more aggressive. Pairs well with a sustained dps like soldier. Probably won't work at higher levels but a great example of playing your best character being just as viable as playing "meta" 
No, that win, by having a character classified as "Not DPS" do damage, violated subsection B of the "Character Class" section of the Neckbeard Conference (2016).  

Report it!  And remember, if you stand in a biotic field, that hp does *not* count.
He's immobile, has a big hitbox, melts tanks, and generally adds a fuckton of damage to your team.

Think of him as Bastion with a defensive Ult.

XD
>we won the game.

Sounds like it's valid!
Its acceptable, i see the world differently now
That comp actually seems like it could be super-effective, assuming Ana and Zen can aim. I think it ends up having problems vs. a shield heavy defense though, especially a Bastion behind a shield.
Never thought about it but that team comp actually seems pretty sweet. Ana and Zen excel on that map and just about every hero has synergy with another one. 
A good zen is a wonderful supplement to a team that slightly lacks DPS and healing. While a Zen/Lucio combo can be a bit low on heals. That mainly depends on how well the team coordinates. 

A Zen can 2 tap any 200 HP hero with discord, isna great source of supplemental damage to his team through discord, and generally puts out a lot of pressure when well protected. 

Zen is one of my favorite heroes to play and, with good accuracy, he’s an absolutely solid addition to a team that needs just a bit more dps. 
Why not? He does respectable damage with perfect aim and no falloff, he has his own damage-multiplier and he "heals" himself while hiding. 

yes, if you call out discords and have decent enough aim with zen. 
Zen swings the dps output a lot. Not only does he increase everyone by 30% but he adds his own dps which is beast at 50% on discorded targets. Sometimes just a simple switch of lucio to zen, or even mercy to zen will make huge changes in your team's dps.
Zen is a valid pick if your team needs DPS? **YES**, this is why you should pick him!

Zen can replace an DPS player making an 1(Dps)-2(tanks)-3(heals)? No, it can work, but even 5 Sups + Sombra can work sometimes. Zen is better as an 3rd DPS that will give heals for an Genji/Pharah/Tracer/DoomFist and save you from an Nano-Blade every time.

I'm a main Zen and if my team needs a second DPS player, I'll end up picking Zen as your teammate did, but this is because I have so much time with him that I'll kill more on him than in any other DPS.

____________

Think about Zen as an DPS hero that will help with heals, like an Soldier that isn't egoist XD

His job is to do and improve damage, he will deal damage enough to usually have a silver on kills or damage and will make the enemy targeted have 30% less effective health points.

________

Fun Fact:

Junkrat concussion mine deals 120 Damage with 3m radius.

An Discorded target takes +150

An boosted Junk deals +150 with it.

An boosted junk deals +200 with it on an discorded target. (This is cheesy and OP and the same is valid for Junk primary and Pharah's primary as well) 
TBH at that point your Ana or Lucio should've switched, but hey, if it works it works.
zen is always a valid pick
I agree. A player who mains Zenyatta with do far more damage on Zen than they will trying to play a DPS they're average or mediocre at.

Zenyatta also pairs well with a Lucio who knows how to aggressively flank effectively as well as with other dive-comp heroes.

The biggest issues with substituting Zenyatta in for a typical "DPS" hero are:

 - a lack of hitscan (which can be easily remedied by your lone DPS playing McCree/76/Widow)

and

 - a lack of another offensive ultimate

Sometimes the neither of those are needed, for instance, if they don't have a Pharah or if you already have other strong offensive ultimates like Earthshatter/Graviton. Additionally, if Zenyatta's ultimate is extremely valuable for countering enemy ultimates such as Genji/76 or Reaper/Hanzo or whatever non-burst ultimate combos they may run, he may be a better choice simply for that reason.
This game makes no sense anymore! What's next, Pharah's rocket boost puts her into the ground and she shoots from below!?
Changing Zen for Junk would solve any problem against Rein+Orisa or smart genjis/doomfists/tracers that would take advantage of how weak this comp is against divers
JUSTICE RAINS FROM BELOW
Nah that's Dva now. 

This season is absolute hell. What do I do?
I ended last season at 2666 and placed at 2756 this season. Last season was annoying with dive meta but games felt a lot more fun and when we lost it felt like we were truly outplayed. I've been duo queuing with a gold player who should be in Platinum (he's won like 20 more games than he's lost) but almost every time *I* queue with him, we lose. I know I don't belong in gold but I just keep losing. I'm still at like 2669 but I'm tilting out of my mind after every loss because almost every game I'm in I lose it because a) Their Mercy rezzes at the last second and wins them the game instantly b) Their Junkrat gets a bullshit ult at the last second or a stray grenade hits me from 1000 miles away c) They're running some variation of Torb/Orisa/Bastion/Junkrat/Symmetra which I've literally only won against maybe once this whole season. Every game feels like actual hell because every game has a fucking Junkrat that just spams and gets lucky kills with his nades. I'm really good at Junkrat myself, but it never seems to work when I play him in competitive, the enemy team always seems to have a Pharah or someone on my team gets picked off instantly and then Junkrat is useless. Every game feels like a fucking coin flip where as last season every game felt winnable. 2CP is worse than ever with Junkrat able to full hold a point by himself. The only decent mode is King of the Hill. Should I just stop duo queuing because I'm being placed with and against golds? I feel like gold players don't do the things I expect them to do. Like they sometimes fail at simple shit that plats don't fail at. Maybe duo queuing is just a bad idea, but this season is absolute torture. I don't think a single game has been what I call "fun". One of Junkrat, Torbjorn, or Orisa is literally in every one of my games and it makes me want to fucking shoot myself. Is there anything I can do or do I just have to wait until Blizzard gives Junkrat the nerf he badly deserves?This rant felt very much like a: *"I was good last season and am struggling to adapt to the new meta vs. Heroes I really hate."* rant.

This also applies to all your team mates, old and new. People are struggling to adjust to the new meta and what worked last season won't work as well this season. 

A good Junkrat is VERY oppressive and sometimes downright unfun to play versus, and people don't really know how to counter him yet. His damage is so high, especially in tight spots, that you can't really just "run in" and kill him alone when he has favorable positioning. 

As for heroes? Play D.Va and M2 him while your team mates kill him. Get a RoadHog and hook his ass. Play Zarya and feed on his 'nades to do ludicrous DPS. Play Pharah\Mercy and destroy him. 

It can be a rough learning curve if you have a limited hero pool especially if your "go-to-main" isn't as effective anymore. 

However, if you **truly** are a mid to high Plat player like you assume, you just need to play enough to learn the new meta and you'll come straight back to where you belong.
Find a hero you just straight up enjoy playing.

Right now, for me it's Roadhog.  Hooking people is still fun, and taking an absolute TON of damage and living as you walk away and heal is amazing.  Focus on improving one or two heroes at a time.

For example, I'm Rank 26 Roadhog right now (Overbuff), and I've been having a blast playing him.  It keeps the games fresh and I feel like I can push myself to play better and better each game!
Stop playing with your friend. 

Either : 
He belongs where he is, the SR system is pretty good at placing people in the middle values. His win/loss is because he plays mostly against lower skill players when you aren't around. Your high SR is propping him up into a rank where he can't keep up with you. 

OR

You don't belong at your SR and playing with him is only speeding up your SR drop.  The less you play with him the more slots on your team are open to get a ringer who can carry you. 5 chances at getting carried is better then 4 chances. 


Maybe?
If you can't get though a turret and shield point defense... and cant deal with a junkrat...and can't survive pharah as junkrat... and can't deal with gold level team mates... and can't deal with all these other issues.  
Maybe, just maybe your weaknesses in the game have been hidden by the dive comp meta and you are actually a one-comp-pony and are going to seriously need to work on your game sense now that other comps are being used.  

Dude, we are only one week in the season. Don't give up so early. I agree that junks ult is op and pharah-mercy are unfun to play against, but there is a huge patch just around the corner, that will fix junks and mercys ult.

Also if you want to beat junkrat you have to avoid his spam (by holding highground, flanking him, fly in the air with pharah). Like you said junk only gets kills if you allow him to get "lucky kills" with his spam. He is horrible at taking a fight to the enemy, so if you just avoid him, he can not do anything to hurt you. Bait him out of his position, have him attacking you in open space where he is the weakest.
Can someone explain why in my QPs the reds are arround diamond (~2700-3100SR) although in ranked I´m hoovering around mid Gold to Plat since S1?
TLDR this is just a long complaint about junkrat? Get good at pharah or zarya, now it's a skill matchup against the junk at the very worst, there you go. I don't see what people can say to this post that will actually help you in the long run
Vs the BS defender team always just go Hanzo, Zarya and get an Ana in case they have a Zen. Usually you can take care of the Symm turrets or avoid them. The others almost always just chill behind Orisas shield making them easy grav/dragon targets as well as making it not too difficult to scatter them. Add a Genji to the mix and you can normally 2v6 or 4v6 win against them.

As far as nerfing Junk goes: You'll wait a while, he finally got his well deserved buff. He is still super easy to counter with Pharah but at least he isn't as crap as he used to be.

Queuing in gold: I know the pain since I climbed out of that sh!t show. People there suck worse than any other rank I've tried (played on a friends bronze account, pulled myself from high silver to high plat, curious to see if diamond really is as bad as a lot of people say tho) because literally everybody and their grandmother has to be the dd main who goes for the team swipe alone and fails. But if you are duo queuing you should have an ult combo that will almost guarantee you can cap points on 2cp/hybrid modes. As far as payload maps go, I never encountered a Symm/Torbj/Bastion/etc defense that was too hard to beat. If I lose there usually it's cause the others played better and not cause of cheesy defense.
So much this.
I mean I played without him tonight playing mostly Junkrat and went 4-1, and was able to work around Pharah just fine. I honestly just think it was either bad luck or gold players are just extremely unreliable. 
Junk's ult isn't OP. It's just useful where it wasn't before... and you can still easily OS his tire.
Where can you see this? I'd like to see if there's a difference for me too.

Maybe the meta is different and your playstyle doesn't get rewarded this much in ranked.
Then it's probably him. 

And not compensating for having unreliable team mates. Which is part their fault for sucking and part your fault for trying to rely on them.   Different ranks really do have different tactics and strategies that you have to work around and it sounds like you're having a hard time compensating for the change is tactics because of gold.   This is one of the reasons watching GM games to learn strategy isn't as useful as people think.  
Junks ult can fly due to the insane momentum it gains after disconnecting from a wall. It is almost impossible to shoot/dodge that thing if it's falling out of the sky with the speed of light. Even pro players say that the ult is too hard to counter, espeacially when you compare it to other dps ults. 
I press "P" and mousehoover over the enemy team =) a month ago or so enemies were around Gold/Plat what more or less is my ranked SR
Yeah, flying tire is ridiculous. 

Also a Junkrat 1 trick. The speed is necessary and the wallclimb fix is a great QOL improvement, but the lift on the tire is ridiculous.
Flying tire is probably not happening in gold matches.

Gold Soldier VOD Review Request - Ult usage
So my ult usage in this game is just straight up horrific; some of the worst I think I've ever done in this bracket. When it comes to Attack side ulting though, I'm having a hard time figuring out when those good moments are as a Soldier. The enemy team usually isn't sticking their neck out as much as people usually do on attack so I'm working to figure out how to setup those situations when they're on defense.

Feel free to criticize all other aspects of my game. Anything helps. Thanks!

https://youtu.be/DNYUb8iM-OEHigh-plat/low-diamond flex here, Soldier is my go to DPS (not that I get to DPS much anymore), have around 80 hours on him.

I kinda jsut flicked through to the ults because that's what you asked for, but in the general play from what I saw;

- try to work on your aim, particularly hitting crits.

- you generally did a good job holding high ground until you got inside on attack, then you forgot and became a short-range soldier. You copped a few hammers to the face from Rein for this.

With your ults;

7:12 – wasn’t a great time to ult. Too much cover between yourself and enemy. They had all disappeared after Soldier announced his ult line (after you fell off your high ground lol). If you were deadset on ulting at this time, I would've worked around on the moving platforms on the side so you could see down the slope, you would've guaranteed at least 1-2 kills this way.

9:44 – enemy has too much cover, you’re surrounded and they have two shields up. If you’d saved it until 9:58 you would’ve almost team wiped. Since they are ignoring you (except for Pharah but she was dead), don't be afraid to let the tanks move past you and pop up on the side with Tac Visor. They will either have to shield you, turning their backs to your team, or let their team get picked behind them. You missed a few chances to flank and get good angles on their advancing team.

14:15 – why did you jump off your vantage point when you ulted? You can also see that they have; a) a genji probably with deflect up; and b) a Rein moving into place. You are going to get max one pick here if you’re very lucky {0 picks after watching it}.

16:26 – better ult. Don’t be afraid to jump down and chase someone with your ult if that’s your only option, which it kinda was after your first pick. You were going to get max two kills here (since Rein was at the back) and you got one and made Genji run. Better result than previous.

18:57 – I can’t believe you got away with ulting here. You got away with this due to the Genji’s incompetence rather than this being a good ult. A good Genji would shut this type of ult down with deflect and then dash you.

You had the right idea with ulting from high ground, you just got the executing timing wrong. Wait until you see an opportunity that will guarantee you at least a kill (preferably a support or Pharah). Try flanking and waiting until Rein's shield is down and Genji has used deflect if he is getting in your face.

Hey, I'd love to help, I'm a GM Soldier main. If you're down I could go into a discord with you and go over it, I'm not that good at formatting and making myself clear via text. Just PM me if you want to.
Hey hey!  Thank you very much for replying; I appreciate you taking your time to take a look.  Getting critical hits is definitely something I'm working on; I need to put more deliberate practice on getting crits.  Other than crits didn't you notice any bad habits with my aim? 

7:12 - This is the kind of situation I'm struggling with in my head.  I think you're right with the flank angles; that could help me in situations like this.

9:44 - I see what you mean, I was trying to get my team to burn shields here and in other places, but maybe if I hold Visor a bit more and look for opportunities where the shield has to go elsewhere/is down (like the charge) I'll get more value.

14:15 - literally just fell. /smh  Not sure how it happened, but it did.  That's why I look around so frantically for a target. I was hoping to get the Mercy and maybe the Genji, but clearly I didn't go through any sort of "ult checklist" here; perhaps I need a checklist even if that only contains one item just to avoid impulse ults like this.

18:57 - Hm.  Something I didn't really consider here.  I guess I just haven't had to respect Genji's much.  Time to start thinking about this!

Thanks again!
Wow, now that I'm watching it with crits in mind....

1. I've gotta figure out my video quality; that's too bad of a recording to really critique that.

2. There are certain situations where I'm not too much at risk and if I just slowed down a bit, I'd hit way more crits I think.
Yeah I thought your aim was decent. There was about a bit around 6:21-6:29 when you were popping off and took down a Genji, Pharah, Mercy and Winston with pretty good accuracy. But if you practice hitting crits and flicking your helix rockets, you'll see a big difference in how people drop. You might even be able to up your sens slightly, there was a bit around 8:48 where the genji was jumping around you and you just seemed to trail his jumps a bit, if you'd had higher sens you might have kept the cursor on him the whole time. Same again around 9:02ish. Or work on your prediction, particularly when Genji is in the air he's relatively easy to predict where he will land for a helix rocket at his feet, unless he double jumps.

Something that helped me with my hitscan accuracy was hard ana/lucio bots with headshots only.

You will have to start respecting Genjis. They start getting decent mid/high-plat and will deflect your ult in your face. DVA was the biggest issue but she's getting nerfed soon.

Yeah I have a mental checklist before I ult. It's

- where is DVA? Has she used her DM recently?
- where is Genji? Has he used his deflect recently?
- where is Rein/Winston? What's their shield health?
- am i in position to get at least a pick here (support) or two picks if i'm not going to get a support?
- am i likely to die here? If so, will my picks win the teamfight?

Not that I always get my ults right, I'm only around 3,000SR, but it helps not wasting ults.
Golden!  Thanks for this; lot's to think about!

I've been climbing with Orisa lately. How do I use her to her potiential?
So lately I've been using Orisa in competitive due to filling and I've climbed a good amount of SR using her (63% WR) but reviewing some of my gameplay I feel like there is some things I can work on. Generally what tips should Orisa players use to maximise her kit?I main Orisa in mid plat (58h in comp last season). Can we get some context on what rank you are so maybe we can help you more?

I stalked your previous posts (sorry :D), you say you're high plat a few days ago, so you're probably higher than me. Anyway, some good Orisa tips are:

1. Ask for a Torb on defence, especially if you have to hold point A for a win. Babysit the turret like it's your own child. Ask for a Rein too. Set up behind/next to the point and let the Rein hold the front. Also, don't ult on the same defence as the torb unless absolutely necessary!

2. Don't place your shield somewhere where the enemy can attack and destroy it without them being visible to you. This is especially important when defending chokes.

3. Learn to synergise halt with allies. You'd nano an ulting genji, you'd sleep a Rein shielding his team from a D.Va bomb, you'd use dragonstrike on your zarya's graviton, so why not combo halt too? Simple stuff includes pulling enemies off high ground (very useful), pulling weak enemies back around corners to finish them off/pull back into D.Va bomb, and pulling enemies away from your allies (e.g. 'peeling' for your supports). More advanced stuff includes halting a group of enemies when tracer ults (I've got a couple quadra kills this way), halting up an enemy Reinhardt so your Reinhardt can Earthshatter under him, and halting enemy squishies up from behind shields so your Widow can get a pick.

4. Remember to use voice comms, mainly so you can complain about scatter every time you get one shot, but also sometimes it's useful for coordinating with teammates and letting you know about your halt.
I play a bit of orisa. I'd say with her you gotta make sure to use your cooldowns all the time, and also make sure you don't just autopilot use them. 

Sometimes I'll die as her and realize I had either fortify or my shield off cd. That's simply not using your cd's

On the other hand, sometimes I find myself using them but it's useless. I'll put up a fresh shield then pop fortify even tho nobody can shoot through the shield yet. 

Make every cooldown count with orisa. Use halt to bring back enemies that are escaping, or use it to pull people out of cover during the poke phase. 
I really recommend watching eviltoasterow. Hes a orisa and rein main and I learmed a lot about not just orisa but shields/barrier usage from him.
I put a lot of time into Orisa last season and this one and I know the things that I try and be mindful of:

Shield spacing:  
the distance between Orisa and her shield matters. Like a goal tender and their net. The farther out the enemy is the bigger the gap I tend to leave for myself.  Take into account the enemy comp and close the gap against Pharah and extend it with reaper. 

Telepresence positioning:  
Orisa can stand on high ground or off of the choke and still control those areas. Look for opportunities to really exploit that. Places where Orisa can still throw shields and lay down fire yet be physically holding a flanking position effectively blocking two approaches at once.  Tanking from an off angle position makes it harder for the enemy to form a cohesive counter (Orisa's low pick rate makes knowing her strats less common, take advantage to it)

Proactive shielding:  
plan at least one shield ahead. When your shield comes off cooldown you should already have an idea where the next one should be going. The more you use her the better your internal timing on shield refresh will become.  On payload maps and ugly brawls on the point consider cutting the battlefield in half with your shield like a Winston bubble so that your allies can shield dance through it.  Keep an eye out on when you're allies need your shield to be refreshed in place and when you can move it without exposing them. Or when they need it more then you do and vice versa. Even dumping that one last shield down for Them when you're about to get focused down and killed. 


Sneaky halts:  
Keep an eye out for the unusual cliffs or less common places to use halt.  There are plenty of high ground spots to pull people off of.  Remember that you can pull people out from behind cover when your allies are chasing them. there are lots of small cliffs on the corners of the map that aren't usually used for booping.   Always be looking for the next Halt target, think about where enemies are likely to pop up in the next push for halts. 
Trick question, you don't lol

 (Please dont downvote me I mean this sincerely as a joke. What I find helpful with her is to use her primarily in defensive situations so u can hold chokes and not actually attack the choke
Thank you so much! She is so fun to play and since it's plat, I win because people are so caught off guard that there is a tank  in the match haha 
Yep this is a good one. Use your cooldowns, especially halt, often. Use fortify when you're in real danger, but also try to use it when you have armor to make it even more powerful.
Shit joke and shit advice.  You really went all out on this post

Giving up hope, why can't I climb? Zen main
I started placements 1-9, giving me a W/L after placements of
45 wins 
31 losses
4 draws 
Including placements I'm 46-40-4 but down hundreds of SR

I never tilt, I main zen but fill if needed, my stats are really good, I win significantly more than I lose, but after reaching a season high of 2540, I keep dropping (while generally winning more than I lose). 

I have another account as well and it floats solidly in diamond, I want to get this account up though because I have a rich and full friends list. 

Stats:
https://www.overbuff.com/players/pc/perpetua1-1810?mode=competitive
Diamond zen main here

Your stats look like a smurf abusing lower SR players

Are a lot of your Ls from disconnecting yourself for double SR hit? 

If I was up 14 wins over placements I would have gained several hundred SR

I'd guess you'll climb if you keep playing like that but it's already fishy you haven't
Honestly? The game will try to keep you at your rank, no kidding man.

I had an season where I was losing 3 for each victory and my SR didn't changed at all.

Now on this season I have 3,5 times more wins than loses (almost 150 games until now), same hero, same SR.

The worst part is see an 14 win streak giving around 19 SR peer victory on Solo Queue (I'm plat) even with silver damage kills and heals most of the games on Zenyatta.

Than the next is a Loss and they take just 38 SR in a Bang.

__________

Fun fact:

I've made an new account, played only arcade until 25 and only on Soldier.

I went to ranked playing then Zenyatta, got an 2vic-7def-1dra and was placed with 3,1k SR while my max after I started the S5 was 2,7 on my account.
The stats on overbuff don't really mean anything right now (or really ever). There's only 8000 registered Zenyattas this season. Give it time for my players to opt in before you start trying to get any information out of that.

That said, your stats do look pretty typical for a diamond player I think.

Looking at your win rate, it looks like you're just on a losing streak right now. Have you been playing on this account recently or have you picked up comp after playing on the other account for awhile? Your MMR might still be adjusting, but 90 games should definitely be enough... I think this will sort itself out in time and you're just worrying too soon. Grind it out and you should get back up.

Giving up is a sign of tilting, so maybe you should consider taking a short break too.
You have a godly Zen. I would say your only problem is you play other characters when you start losing or to fill a role. Don't do that. Stick to him to the end and use a mic for teamwork when you can.
Your overall winrate is only 53% so its gonna be a slow climb. Simple as that.  

I had to switch from zen to junkrat to climb out of gold.  Zen is more of a catalyst, so if he's on a good team he makes it great, but if he's on a broken team, it's still broken.  Junk I can spam kill and zone and actually make broken teams somewhat viable.  
Your stats are very similar to mine from last season. I think you'd definitely climb if you can keep your WR up to 60-65%+.  I'd recommend grouping with a duo partner you synergize with do you don't have to carry everyone.
Slightly Offtopic: If someones MMR in QP matches him with high Platinum and Diamond players but at the same time he got a SR around 2300 what exactly is that telling me?!
well team i managed to climb back up and get a season high tonight... 58-34 after placements to gain 143 SR... still seems off
sorry, i fail to see the issue. you have a very good winrate, if you keep this up you will climb. if you want to improve, feel free to post vods.
elo hell does not exist, ive smurfed on multiple accounts(some new, some high level ones) and ive ranked up so fast that i could barely practice
I am a Zen main as well your zen stats are higher than mine. I have same problem. My sr is about the same as yours. I solo queue mostly but I see mistakes from my team and myself a bit also. I am working to improve on what I can like using my ult more. But whenever I make a suggestion to my team they always respond with Im carrying you blah blah blah even though my zen stats are not too bad I am around 15000 zen hero skill on overbuff.  Mostly I just ask the team to group up instead of trickle or ask them to switch if they are getting countered which never happens.
I have disconnected once in total.
This has to be the case, on my other account, I dropped to 2900 a few times this season and quickly made it back up to diamond without too much trouble, ive got a barely 50% win rate on that account

68% win after placements on this account, playing really well, and losing SR the only mathematical way it works is if I am seriously getting fucked. 

Why can't OW use a straight +/- like DOTA?
I think the most bizarre thing is even being up 14 wins is I've managed to lose hundreds of SR... 

I never payed attention to it until recently but why would I get say punished for 29SR lose on a leaver game but gain 20 when I have 4 golds in a good win?

I just am at a complete loss for how ELO hell isnt real when I already know I am a diamond player, win more often than not, contribute a ton, but can't climb.

Its not a big deal, I have my other account trying to hit master for caring about my SR, I just think its sad I had to buy a new one to truly get out of hell haha
I played against this guy today and he was being real salty in chat about how he was supposed to be in diamond. We won 3-0.
Thanks, Im always calling my orbs and communicate as much as I can, dont know what else I can do haha
Ya adding onto this. I solo queued with soldier only up to diamond, before I had to learn multiple heroes so I could climb to master. It's honestly super viable & reasonable to just one trick pony your best hero until diamond. You can solo carry as Zen to Diamond for sure. Hell, people do it even until Top 500. 
68% win rate after placements
yeah if i have a DPS with me who isnt braindead i do much better 
my QP on my new account was against GMs is your account new?
Ulting for zen is in three categories

1. high damage you can heal through, genji, soldier, mei etc

2. Things you can't usually heal through but if ulting will at least save you and keep the team fight going by quickly bringing up any survivors, such as diva

3. Ulting to save your own ass and maybe a couple others on your team. This is the hardest to judge when to do but dont be afraid of these ults, zen builds ult pretty fast and your damage and heals suddenly gone from a fight can easily cause your teams 5v5 for example to still fail 

In plat dont worry about telling people to switch off, you can suggest it but it probably won't happen. just stay poz and focus on your role 
dude i see you got the SR back up, grats. You are also Top 500! on overbuff haha

If you keep climbing you'll find games you can't ball out as hard and have to play super safe (not sure if you play zen on your diamond account).

In games you are being pressured more (again most of the time in plat you will be largely ignored) really focus hard on positioning, the more you are pressured the more important charged shots and positioning become. 

But you stats are INSANE keep it up
> Why can't OW use a straight +/- like DOTA?

1. Because they calculate your skill by MMR not SR, and the MMR is calculated by comparing you with the other players around the globe. They try to keep MMR without changing much, avoiding flutuations.

2. They want everyone to play fair matches most of the time, rank is actually just an beautiful thing to show up.

____

Little Rant: Have you ever noticed how easy the youtubers get to Masters on OW? And they usually play worst than you? Then you look to his enemies and is like he is playing with boots from how bad they act? Some times I feel like the Devs make it easier to Youtubers in order to give better content and more advertising to the game
The sr algorithm takes a lot of things into account. Maybe in the game with 4 golds, you were higher sr than most other people in the game and you were expected to carry and win. 
once the game algorithm decides it thinks you're suppose to be in gold it tries to keep you there.  Mostly by giving less sr for wins and more for losses once you start getting away from your rank.  It also compares you to other zen players stats and adjusts how much elo you win based on how well you do vs their stats.  And finally, Im not sure if this is still a thing, but months ago there were a lot of reports of healers gaining less elo and placing worse than DPS and tank players.  I cant say if this still happens since I havent kept up, but its possible.
Well, the only thing I can really suggest to you is to start tracking your games and keeping notes. There's a lot of game trackers floating around now. They're just spreadsheets where you plug in your SR gains. It can help clear up some confusion.
It's possible Zenyatta's personal performance metrics are super fucked again. Stop playing him and see if it gets better.
So you winrate recently rapidly improved?  It might take time, then. S4 my winrate was <50% and then s5 I was consistently 60-70% and I slowly gained a few hundred sr. 
Well, it´s level 900+ my SR is hoovering around mid gold / low plat since S1 with the difference nowadays I have a lot of hours on a lot of Chars. Should I just play ranked as casual as QP to get Diamond mates (i.e. get ranked as diamond myself) in ranked? 
honestly I am beginning to suspect a hidden Low Priority Queue in OW... this just doesnt make sense
Thanks Blizzard. 
Im not sure why Im being down voted, if Im wrong I'd love to know why.
Qp  has a different calc, it has too. You go on a 7 games win streak and your opponents get drastically more difficult. Or atleast that's been my experience.

My opponents usually start near my SR and get more difficult as I win
Interresting observation!

How do I calm down quicker?
When I started Overwatch, I played Rein and Mercy because I couldn't aim. According to one of my friends, [my tracking is still shit](https://gfycat.com/ThankfulRichBluetickcoonhound). However, with some time as Widow in QP and the rare time where my team has 3 tanks and 2 supports beyond me and I play S76, my aim has gotten better, at least to diamond/Plat standards. The biggest problem now, though, is when I play S76 like I did last night, my hand starts to get shaky, probably because I get excited at how I'm now successfully playing a character type that I've always been shit at (I used to play COD). Because of that, I slowly perform worse as a match goes on.A big thing is just breathing. Keeping your breath under control and taking large breaths in through the nice and releasing through the mouth slowly, not forcing yourself to release the air too hard. 
Stop playing Competitive and relax in QP or Arcade. You need to take a break every so often.
Remember something funny.

When I start to feel cold on my hands even though the room is hot while in a game I remember funny shit from Kruise's YT channel and I start to not give a damn thing about it. This would help you too, dont you think? Laughing always helped me when I needed to calm down.
The Pharah, I don't blame you for. She went over your head and it's hard to hit that shot.

I won't say that the Bastion was an easy kill but you should have been able to do good damage without your ultimate. You undershot him, you may need to raise your sensitivity. Unless that was a whiff and you're inconsistent on undershoot vs. overshoot.

Please send in a Tracer VOD.

Just the two cents of a rapidly climbing Gold Reaper/Soldier:76 main.
I think you just underestimate how many hours it takes to get good at something you're not used to. OW is my first competitive fps and I'm in the twilight years of 20's. I've played almost 700 hrs of OW and I still think I'm shit and inconsistent. 

The thing is that you need to play so many hours that when you loose focus - the focus you have when you actually aim well - your mind and muscle memory still perform reasonably well. 

Which is what happens when you start performing worse as the match goes on. You lose focus, and your sub-conscious as well as muscle memory isn't well trained enough to perform as well.

Just keep practicing. It takes a **long** time to perfect your aim. And if you don't already, you should get an aim practice routine. 2-10 minutes in the practice range and 30 mins in Deathmatches of super high focus efforts will work wonders if you practice like that every time you play. 


Sports. Physical activity provides endorphines. If you are pumped with those you barely care about losing while being extrahappy about winning.
Personally I thought their sensitivity was a little too high, since they were snapping all over the place. I could be mistaking looking around quickly for aiming, though.

Tip For Lucio Players:
If your team is waiting to push and teammates are coming back from spawn, or if there are a lot of people on your team dead, wait for them to spawn and then speed boat them to the battle. It's much more useful than waiting for your teammates to walk overI do this from time to time, but some people end up complaining that I'm not on the point or healing them. You can't win :p
A few extra tips on this:

-Definitely call this out. I'll say things like I'm going back to bring x player back, try not to die. Or don't push I'm bringing x back now, etc.

-Don't abandon fights that haven't been clearly won or lost to do this (keep score in the kill feed)

-you don't have to be lucio to do this for your mercy. Just give her a body to fly to. 
I saw this today in a video too. Simple but totally logical tip. Thanks.
i always ask people on lucio to taxi and they ignore me or call me dumb, feelsbadman
Yeah it's only really useful if everybody's waiting to push. Your primary focus should be healing your team
Taxi here, I only come back for "slow" mates or groups. If you are a D.va, Winston, Genju, Sombra etc. don´t count on your Luciotaxi =)

New player - Console Genji having trouble with burst.
Hey everyone - I just started playing this week and I have very little FPS experience. But I've been having fun practicing Genji and playin quick play. My positioning and mobility are good as this archetype of character is typical for me, and I can easily find and eliminate squishy dying targets fleeing fights. But when someone is high health and I need to kill them FAST, I tend to fuck up. Even if I have the drop on them I don't feel like I can chunk them enough with shuriken alt fires to finish them with a dash. Or if I try to dash/shuriken/melee combo them I dash through them and turn around quickly but then whiff the shurkien, or I'm not close enough to melee afterwards. Is this just bad aim and I need to spend more time deliberately practicing that? Or m I messing up with how I "all in" someone?

Thanks!I don't really play a lot of Genji, but it's sounds like you just need more time on him.
this is actually something i struggled with for a while, a lot of situations it is WHEN you are going on someone, like soldier 76, soldier is so much less scary when he has no biotic field or helix rockets, bait one or both of these abilities by spamming from far and then when they're on cd, then dash in and try to hit
your combos. soldier is just 1 example, other heroes like ana's nade/dart or mccree's flash/roll

- 4k~ PC genji
It depends if deflect is on cooldown or not for me. If deflect isn't available:

-Below half hp it's easy to dash first and confirm the kill. 

-If they're nearly full health, I like to get 2 shurikens on them from range until I dash them, then right click until a melee finishes. Headshots are extremely helpful when you need to finish someone and can't retreat, such as ulting soldier during overtime. 



If deflect is available:

-Go kill that mofo and get your dash reset. 


If deflect and dash are both down: why are you engaging? Chill homie, those cooldowns come back baby
Well yeah I'm brand new. Definitely getting the hang of it but looking for a little direction (:
Awesome, thanks. I suppose I really need to be aware of how much damage dash is going to do so I know when I can dash and secure a kill 

Finally reached Master, thanks OWU community!
Hey guys. After being “stuck” in (low) Diamond in season 3 & 4, in season 5 I was one game away from reaching masters but unfortunately did not make it, ending at a final SR of 3443. Now in the beginning of season 6 I finally managed to climb into masters with an overall 60%+ winrate (For the record, I’m a support/tank main who mostly plays Zen, Winston & D.Va).

So you might ask, what was the reason that I managed to climb a whole tier in roughly one season? Well getting better equipment/hardware sure helped out, as I recently swapped my heavy ass Logitech G700 mouse for a much lighter Logitech G403. But if you ask me what the biggest contributor was for my success, I’d say it’s 100% due to the fact that I started to **review my own games**.

There are so many people here making topics like “I’m stuck at X rank, what can I do to get out” or “what can I do to improve X hero/ability”, yet they never even bother to post their own gameplay as a reference. If you are one of those people, I really urge you to start doing it NOW. When you watch your gameplay, you will realize you are not the Overwatch god you think you are and will cringe at all the mistake you make during a game. If you have a hard time finding your own mistakes, you can use [Overwatchdojo’s template]( https://youtu.be/Q_XVyHQ7KMw). If you don’t want to do the reviewing yourself, I’m sure there’s a lot of people here willing to do it for you.

I also highly recommend you guys to watch [Iostux’ videos]( https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCBPCmP5El1BqpItqCswvMkw) if you aren't doing so already. Unfortunately some of his videos are a bit clickbaity, but still his videos are second to none. These are some of his most useful videos imo: [Win conditions]( https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCs5hTTI68w), [Forcing plays]( https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0s8gT14_PJM) and [Support ult management]( https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qZ45d7wEoaA&t=1s) if you are a support.

Some other useful YT channels are [Overwatchdojo](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCYbJ6SGufekKMgzt42Dr1RQ), [Skyline](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCDrfc_LU0llSRI7icBFoBnw)(though he's starting to become more commercial unfortunately), [Level 5 Pidgey](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCSsk23vaGkcv5eMO9Zc_ynQ) and [Meedplays](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCN8h-7gqWGcU29WVv8YwD4g) (For D.Va only), and lastly [KarQ](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCQH4V9PiY_eLo4Ihr1tWCwQ)( mainly Ana/Zen, also some general stuff).

So yeah once again I’d like to thank the OWU community for all the help, and if you have any questions or comments feel free to do so!
Maybe you could review one of my DVa and/or Lucio clips If I can upload them? :)
Sure thing bro, just pm me the link and I'll have a look at it 

Three Basic Healer Rules
How many times have you died because of a stupid mistake - Getting tunnel vision and wading into the fight, weapons blazing. Trying to save the McCree/Genji/Reaper who push too far into the line, in the hopes that they'll be able to do a ton of damage? Rescuing a tank that's WAY too far ahead, or just not looking and having a tracer sneak up on you.

Luckily, these are easy to fix:

When playing, repeat these to yourself in order. Watch your deaths shrink. 
***
Look around

Stay out of the line of fire

Heal the tank
***

Why?

Just like when you lose your car keys or phone, repeating what you're looking for helps you look for it. In this case, repeating these basic and elemental commands helps make sure you're not sucked into the game getting tunnel vision.  

These are simple, elemental things that every healer needs to know while playing. 

**When you're playing, repeat these to yourself out loud.**

Try it tonight. For as long as you're alive, repeat it. Watch yourself follow the commands and your stats increase. Mute your mic, of course!I also used to think, "Heal the tank", but I now think that it's important to heal the person who is taking damage. If Rein has his full shield up, and he is at 100 HP, but he's not in danger, but Genji is about to step into a junkrat trap with no deflect, then do you heal the tank? Ideally your tank advances to help the Genji, and you heal the Genji until that happens. The alternative is to just let Genji die, which might actually be a good play in certain situations. Maybe your team needs to kill a Lucio that is on payload, and your Genji steps in a trap. Do you damage boost the Winston and let Genji die? Or do you heal Genji and Let the Lucio stall?

Healing is a force amplifier. 
I'd like to add that 'healing the tank' is a bit more complicated when it comes to Roadhog. If you have your ultimate up (or is close to one) but he doesn't, consider letting him vape himself if he's not in any immediate danger, he should be safe especially with the recent buff
Sorry, I started singing "Every now and then I get a little bit lonely" after reading rule 1. ...What were you saying, again?
As a healer I tend to have a blindspot for areas directly above me. I'm trying to develop the habit to look straight up more often if my team has a Pharah or is on highground.
I think if you are playing a support it's very important to listen to sound.  I can hear more easily if someone is coming for me than I can probably see them. Just a thought! 
I'm not a healer, but, I think you should always follow and heal the DPS who is overextended into the enemy back line. 100% Guarantee you'll win the game errtime.
Yeah don't just brainlessly heal the tank. Tanks are kinda meant to die. If you see a Winston at 250 HP and McCree at 100 heal him first, and if Mccree is at 150 but in danger and Winston is 60 but safe, heal Mccree.
Yeah, definitely. This is more about preventing elementary mistakes, and I think your description is more situational. 

I think the biggest problem supports have is that our role has a LOT of effect - DPS in the front need to have sustain, tanks need heals to push the payload, cap the point. Fellow healers can sometimes use a little help. We address so many situations and possibilities in the role, it weighs a player down through decision paralysis as we try to find the *best* option.

In this case, following the three rules is the best way to avoid decision paralysis and tunnel vision. Of course, there are finer-grained details. But you have to stay alive and healing long enough to get there - If you don't look around, you don't know who needs healing, so you can't make that decision. If you don't stay out of the line of fire, you don't have enough time to pop your ult in between hoofing it from the spawn to the point. If you don't heal the tank, you have no anchor to which you can return if you decide to push and heal. 

There's lots of ways to take these points, but the important thing I want to note is that these are *basic things that everyone forgets*. Before we go any further in analyzing more scenarios, it's important to execute on the basics!
This. 

I was watching a recording of a recent match, it was frustrating to see our Zen do things like have an orb on near full health D.Va chilling and not taking damage when I was less than half health as Pharah having retreated from a fight, which I could have quickly returned to finish had I immediately been healed. I won't complain at a healer for not healing me but in this case I could have started asking for the orb had I realized it was a problem. I know, don't focus on others' mistakes but I learn from others' mistakes too and it's sort of helpful to know I wasn't the one who messed up everything. 

I think it can be helpful also to flick heals back and forth between people as Zen or Mercy depending on the situation, rather than try to top people off one at a time. 
It's this. I'm not a great healer, but my attention's gonna be on the guy who's closest to death. That's gonna be the 80 health Genji, not the 300 health Rein with his shield up. I heard your first call for healing, I know where you are 'cause you're the tank, but I can see everyone's health and you can't so trust me to at least make that call right :)
Oh, basically, I was saying that if you follow the rules, it's a total eclipse of Reinhardt. 
My death rate as a support main dropped by more than 30% when I stopped doing this, and consequently my winrate has gone up. I will advance -with- a teammate, sometimes I will accompany a flanker for maximum devastation, but I can't save you if you are just plain overextending.
Yeah, someone else mentioned that there are deeper strategies at play.

The issue is, these are really basic, fundamental things. Even at 100 hours in on Mercy, I forget these.

You can't build on the advanced strategies until and unless you practice and remember the basic ones.
As a support main, I *always* appreciate when my Pharahs ping for healing, because if she is above and/or behind I don't have her health bar on screen and I am not always sure of WHERE I need to look if she has been aggressively using the airspace. It's so handy to have the big red cross pop up to be able to instantly orient to her position. It's not that I don't cover my Pharahs over the course of the battle, but sometimes my positioning needs to be more defensive, and this method keeps me safe and her healed and everyone blue is happy.
Not always true. Sometimes others make mistakes. Was playing a 3v3 game, and I purpled Mei. She had walled her self in, no ice block, and we had all 3 people. My team was like, "LET'S JUMP OUT OF THE WINDOW." They didn't say it... they just did it. Well that Mei froze me with about 50 HP left. We won the match, but wtf team? Why would you jump out of the window to chase someone on high ground... that you can't even get to?
A far better reply than my comment deserved. Take my upvote.
I was actually just kidding, but hey, if it works, go for it!

I wonder what it'd be like to have my healer with me while flanking - I fear for the other teammates who aren't being supported though. I do love having Zen orbs on my as Tracer.
In this case I had dropped back down where the team was. And then I pinged. :) I often pop up and then come back to my healers, or go find a health pack if I'm too far. (I play support too btw.) If I didn't have the video I wouldn't be as critical, I just assume there's some other thing going on if I don't get healed. 
Like I said, overextenders intent on 1v6ing can just do the walk of shame back from spawn. XD

I really only accompany flankers when there's a second healer who can hold the fort down and we are initiating a team fight so shields are at the ready.

Oh my god, damage boosting a sneaky reaper death blossom is a wet dream. Making sure Pharah or Genji can survive their full ults is a great feeling.  Speed boosting a pair of flankers into position before the team expects them, then booping supports out from behind cover and shields. I rarely flank with Zen or Ana because my ability to disengage with them is minimal, but with the other two it can be a really surprising strategy. Supports are amplifiers, and sometimes it makes sense to amplify the strongest part of your team, even if it goes against common wisdom.
I do notice that some people as Zen subscribe to the theory that tanks always take priority no matter what because they anchor the team and that orbing squishier teammates just emboldens them to take more risks. I have even watched youtube videos that give this exact advice.

I am not one of those Zen players, and make sure to top people off if I can. It's way less of a big deal for dva to zoom off for a quick healthpack than it is for Pharah to completely leave her space in order to hunt one down. 
I'm maining Zen this season and have 70% winrate in gold so I must be doing ok. My thoughts on this are that having your orb on a tank builds ult charge VERY quickly with zen, I like to think about the healing orb as help for your tanks and your ult charge and discord for helping your DPS. Also mobile DPS naturally break line of sight a lot and it can be very difficult to constanly keep an orb on them. I also feel like having your ult every team fight with zen is much better than slightly delaying the death of a single DPS hero. 

In saying this though if a DPS is getting battered or ask for healing I will orb them, but a lot of DPS characters (especially pharah) seem to need healing when they are out of my line of sight and there is not much I can do. Less mobile characters are much easier to maintain line of sight and keep your orbs on.
Good points. Tanks are meant to take a few hits. Glass cannon teammates should be trying to take some calculated risks. If I'm being straight up reckless as DPS the orb won't save me anyway and supports should just let me suffer the consequences (while inwardly cursing me). 
I assume you don't just leave the orb on the tank if they're not really getting hit and someone else is though (with the exception of a diving Winston or something like that since he is going to draw attention). To the original point, a tank with a shield and half health is in better shape than a squishy at half or even slightly higher. For instance 120 HP means you will die to one direct hit from Pharah, 140 for a McCree headshot or two body shots, etc. So a tiny amount of healing may be all they need to win a fight. But it also goes back to who is actually being attacked or about to be attacked. 

Preemptively putting an orb on someone mobile like Pharah or Genji allows them to be more aggressive at times and it can still be really helpful for those couple of seconds out of LOS until it drops. Once they get in trouble it is their responsibility to retreat or get a health pack, of course. 
Yea a full health tank is slightly different, but most of the time during teamfights they are taking a lot of damage. I do put it on divers before a fight but after that it can be quite hard to keep it up as they are usually running around the back lines with terrible LOS without compromising my own position.

About 80% of the time trying to save a low health squishy doesn't do a lot, unless stacked with the heals from another support. You have to remember Zen has a very low rate of healing per second. Usually enough to swing a 1v1 in favor of your teammate, but not the best in a team fight for saving someones life if they are super low

Why am I not gaining SR fast?
I've decided that I would main tracer this season, it is my first time playing since around the middle of season 4 where I only placed silver 1774, after that I just fell out, but I recently came back and played a lot of 3v3 and qp's. While doing this I LOVED playing Tracer. After hopping into season 6 and doing my placements (mostly tracer) I placed at 2000 since then I've been able to climb up to 2115. I usually find myself getting gold damage and eliminations, but am not finding my sr going up quickly. I usually seem to steamroll opponents, but every once in a while find a difficult match. Am I truly playing at what I should be or should I be ranked higher and be gaining sr faster? EDIT: What does flex mean?If you're consistently climbing then you're not where you belong, yet. You'll only know where you belong once you seem to hover around a small sr range for a period of time.

Flex just means being able to pick what the team needs, or having a large hero pool to select from.
Having gold damage as a DPS is like having gold healing as mercy. Medals don't mean anything, but game-winning plays do. 

Since the season is still in his first week, I wouldn't care too much about the rank you are playing at. Gold isn't a bad rank, it's where the average Overwatch player is placed at, so to climb out you have to play better than the majority of ranked players. That's not an easy thing to do, especially in Overwatch where climbs can take months and you can find yourself stuck in a rank for weeks (if you aren't significantly better than the other players in your elo). Competitive matchmaking is very random because its team based and you win or lose as a team and not as individual players. That's the reason why some games are simply unwinnable. The most important thing is to not get demotivated by those games and move on to the next one with a refreshed mindset.
In the last couple of seasons, players were typically placed 100-300SR lower than their 'true' rank and the game awarded more SR for wins (and deducted less per loss) for the first batch of post-placement matches. This was designed to give players a 'rush' from climbing fast early on in their season, which would encourage them to play more matches.


In Season 6, this doesn't happen - supposedly you place at your 'true' rank one placement matches are complete, and your SR gains / losses should be at their normal level from that point on. As a result, you typically won't see the same rapid SR gains as before - climbing is a slow grind, and will even out when you reach the point the game thinks you belong.


(As an aside - **gold medals don't mean anything**, especially for elims / player damage when you're a DPS hero, so don't use them as a metric to decide whether you're pulling your weight. The only thing that ultimately matters is your winrate over time.)


Finally, 'flex' / flexing means being able to play multiple heroes at a suitably high level of skill for your rank so that you can pick based on what your team needs at any given point, rather than (for example) instalocking DPS and not switching up throughout the match, even if you're getting hard-countered.
You know all those vids on youtube where it says "How to rank up FAST with these 5 SIMPLE TIPS"?

Yeah that's clickbait. You will get between 20 and 30 SR per win and a bit less if you lose while playing well.

Good luck!
Yeah, I don't have the source to hand (on mobile) but I'm certain I heard on one of the streams out of Gamescom that the SR adjustments post-placement had been scrapped as a result of players arriving at their 'true' SR straight away.
Did they officially remove or change the out of placement bonuses? I know they changed placements so that they don't artificially remove a couple of hundred SR. So it would stand to reason that the out of placement bonus would be changed or removed but I don't recall having seen anything official on it.

Anecdotally, I can't say that it feels the same right out of placements as it did in previous seasons with the amount of gain vs loss. It feels pretty much like later season earnings and losings. 

Just Started Competitive - Need Advice
So this is my first season playing competitive. I've level 89 (first account, first time playing overwatch, first time playing any shooter FPS really). I mostly duo que with a friend, and we finished placement matches last week, and both placed about where I expected, ~1900 SR. The placement matches were not fun, had trolls, leavers and people yelling at me every match for my hero picks (I play a lot of off meta heros, Junkrat, Orisa, Mercy in that order). Only won two of them, and had one draw. I tried to switch heroes to help the team comp, but then I got yelled at for not playing well on the heroes I switched to, so I just stopped switching since I was going to get yelled at either way (and started playing better once I stopped switching). 

I had hoped things would get better once I was out of placements, but I've played another 10-15 games and have lost all but I think three of them, again with leavers and trolls in most of them. And the ones that don't have leavers or trolls, I've been getting harassed and yelled at for being a new player, or for playing heroes they don't like, or for having a crap win rate (~30% last I checked after only about 20 games played total). Of these games, I've had exactly ONE game that didn't feel absolutely miserable to play in, where the team were all friendly, and worked together, and no one yelled at me or anyone else on the team. We won that one, though it was a tough fight.

I do mute players that get abusive, but by the time I do, the damage to my mood is already done, and I'm irritated. All it takes is one bad comment to throw me off. I report those players as well, but that only does so much, and doesn't help my immediate situation.

So, is it normal to go on a losing streak immediately after your first ever placement games in competitive? I know competitive plays different then quickplay and I expected some adjustment and relearning would be needed, but this seems a bit extreme. Is this just how competitive is? I feel like I'm never going to get to even a 50% win rate the way this is going, much less consider trying to improve my rank (I've already dropped to ~1600 SR). And I'm sorely tempted to not join voice chat at all and hide my text chat as well and just play however I feel is best based on my team's in game actions rather than listening to the constant abuse.

Any advice for how to deal with this? Should I just stick it out and hope it gets better? Or just give up and go back to quickplay? While I like quickplay, I had really hoped to try and improve my team game play in competitive, which you don't really get in quickplay, but I can't really do that if everyone's always mad at me and throwing the game just because I'm not doing exactly what they want. 

Any suggestions would be appreciated. Thanks. Don't get too discouraged, Just keep playing and no worries about your SR, honestly if you can't carry games at this SR then you are going to drop when your team isn't pulling their weight or getting the kills needed. the game will find a place for you where you will start winning 50% of the time. when this happens then you know you have found the area in which you are playing at. If you are a Gold player and stuck in silver, you won't be stuck too long because you'll have a good 70% win rate playing with people that are less aware, and less mechancially able to shoot you as well as you shoot them (this goes for every tier differences) and you'll just climb.. for instance, when i get down to silver, i just play soldier, tracer, Pharah and i just crush most teams because they don't have the aim to kill my pharah, they don't position well enough to get away from my soldier and tracer, and they don't switch to counter, so i climb right out of it.. I usually have 2-3 golds per match (elim, ob elim, damage) and that's when I know i'll be just fine. If you find that you are indeed getting ran over by oposing teams, then that just means you either have a bad team (which does happen) or more than likely if it's happening as much as you say it is, you just aren't at that level yet and just need more practice. It's all fine, mute people if you want, put on some music you like, and just play. or tell people in chat "i'll switch to team chat if it's not toxic, once it's toxic, I leave".. if they agree, then you are good and you just stick to your word on that. this should cool things down.
You'll get better faster playing competitive since people are trying to have decent team compositions and working to win. Leavers, trolls, and toxic people will always happen, but you may need to train mentally to tune them out or just mute them. I would recommend playing your best hero until you expand your hero pool whether through QP or comp, you just need to play on them.

Again, play what you think is most fun for yourself. If you find QP fun, then play QP. If you find the competitiveness of ranked, then play ranked. You do not need to play competitive if you find QP fun, but it will never be a good measure of your skill or to see if you have improved or not.

My advice is to have 1-2 heroes in each category that you can play decently well before you tackle ranked. That way, you can switch if you are being countered or if you're being ineffective. There will be growing pains and toxic attitudes, but that's because people *tilt* too easily. Continue to be positive and continue to try your best, communicate with your team, and hopefully you'll find success.
> And I'm sorely tempted to not join voice chat at all and hide my text chat as well and just play however I feel is best based on my team's in game actions rather than listening to the constant abuse.

Do that if your teammates' remarks get to you. Best case scenario is of course everyone being in voice chat and communicating about what's going on in game but especially in lower elo this is very rarely the case. Until you reach high plat/dia 95% of the games are won solely based on positioning and mechanical skill. Work on that and if toxic scrubs get to you, just block them out right from the get go.
Tried this last night, and felt much better about the matches. Had two wins and three losses, but the losses didn't feel terrible. My duo partner was in voice chat and said afterward that they weren't being very toxic anyways though, so maybe we just had a lucky night with good teammates. We'll see how it continues. Sometimes I think even if the team is trying to be nice and helpful, I just get distracted by it and over think my decisions too much based on what they're saying, rather than just trusting that I know what I should be doing. For now, I plan to work on my communication skills via the voice line buttons (telling ult charge, requesting healing, group up, ect) and see where I get with those simple commands.

Overwatch Comp Placements broken?
So I just completed my placement matches in Comp. After ending season 5 at 2356 SR. I just finished my placements for season 6. I went going 4-6 in placement matches. My SR came out to be 3446. I am shocked it was so high. Why would I see a 1100 SR jump from last season? My placement came out similar ... as in much higher than I expected. Did they change placement ranking calculations? 
I think a fair few people have been boosted in this seasons placements. I only won 2 of my placement matches and ended up 250SR up from season 5 where I won about 8 of placements.
Yes they did change it, but a 1000 SR bump doesn't sound like intended behavior.

Check out [this](https://youtu.be/Jqf0e8zzyCw) Developer Update at around the 5:10 mark (on mobile, don't know how to timestamp) for details, though the whole video is probably useful if you haven't seen it yet.

Is Junk broken/unfair or have SR gains changed?
I was able to hit GM in 5 days since the season started as only JR and, personally, I think his changes are mostly fair as he's still incredibly easy to shut down. I think the tire nerf on the ptr is fair as well, as I fully understand how silly it is to basically have a stealth bomber as an ultimate. Though I think having 2 mines is fair as well, I wouldn't mind if that got changed to something while keeping it a buff. If I'm being honest, I think this is the fairest alternative.

The reason I ask this is because I've only hit masters up until this point and I'm not sure if I've finally found a hero I can work at a higher level with or I just found a hero to hold my hand. 

What do you think?I think his tire is absolutely unfair/broken but the rest of his kit is fine imo
I saw a player go from high silver last season to mid diamond by one tricking Junkrat this season, so while I don't want to call him a crutch hero, it's a little hard not to.
He used to be under-powered. 

Now? I dont know if he's balanced yet but I do know that a lot of the people complaining are just plain bad at fighting against him. As a Junkrat player you can really tell the difference between the competent and the clueless. 

Give the players time to adjust before getting overly excited. He's a DPS. He's supposed to be a threat. 


For what it's worth, there is *some* element of skill with Junk. Or at least some non-intuitive strategy for using him effectively. Gotta be some reason I'm 2-6 with him this season when it seems the Red team's Junk always manages to carry.
Well after the Nerf I guess you'll know.

I'm learning that you just don't fight Junkrat up close. I also can't stand the people who think, "Junkrat counters Pharah".
I suspect they are using pre-buff stats when comparing you to other players. So his elim's/damage/ult etc... will all rank high and give higher SR for wins and less SR loss for losses.  

Just a thought, not positive on this.
Junk isn't OP.

He only looks Op because players only see him at Bronze or had saw him in season 1...

It is funny to see how many people die because just walked in his bombs.

It is like on season 1, people need time to adapt him, he is great on stopping dive heroes and at least until people learn how to deal with him again, he will feel OP but not really.
Methinks they need to reduce the damage of his mines to compensate for having 2 of them 
Playing zarya, I'm glad to see more junkrat in games.
yah he's still fine, his ult buff was perfect as i could always shoot down his tire, now.. not so much, and honestly an ULT is suppose to kill people, not get shutdown 85% of the time. he's still just a one clip from my tracer and he's easy to dodge, just can't get close to him with that double mine setup. I just need to be a little more careful with him, but other than that he still bleeds and dies the same as before.
What do you think about the change on the ptr? While fun to use currently, I think it is silly that it goes flying when you leave a wall.
I saw a player go from high silver to mid diamond by one tricking Tracer. I dont want to call her a crutch hero but it's a little hard not to.
Well, if the current DVa makes it off PTR, that will be another buff to Junk. 

So it's likely to take even more time to really figure out where he is at, power wise.
> Now? I dont know if he's balanced yet but I do know that a lot of the people complaining are just plain bad at fighting against him.

It's this. It's the same reason people aren't sure how to get a Symmetra off of them, or aren't sure what they should be doing differently during an EMP. 

Give folks a few weeks to get used to seeing him around and the hitscans will bring him back under control.
To properly use junkrat mines to movement, predict how to aim with his weapon (spam only work with bumb people that don't know to avoid the red glowing ball that is slowly moving in the ground).

He is only getting lots of kills because:

1. He is weak against long range while people try to dive him

2. Dumb people thing is good to walk into red glowing balls

3. They stare to doors while hearing some "pum plac pum plac"(his  easy to know footsteps) and complain about being insta-killed (McCree does the same..)
"Pharah counters Pharah!"

"Only a better Widow counters a Widow, nevermind that my icon hasn't been in the kill field the entire match except for deaths!"
Junk rat never has and never will counter pharah.  He just has a chance to kill her now with his ult. 
I love when a Tracer comes to the junk just to die for an one hit from an Boost from mercy or discord fron zeny <3
In my opinion, the reasons that it's broken right now aren't exactly obvious to everyone.

The complaints you're likely to hear are the "it's too fast now" or "it's flying out of nowhere", the latter of which is definitely going to be better after the patch.

However, the two issues I really seem to be having with it have almost nothing to do with the individual mechanical buffs to the Rip Tire, but instead are minor "counterbalance" tweaks they failed to make to compensate for such strong buffs to the ability.

The first is the sound the ability makes, before you could hear barely hear it from miles away, and that was okay, because by the time you started to hear it knew you'd be able to react to it and the direction it was coming from. Now with the Rip Tire, you still can't hear it from far away, but it moves so damn fast that by the time you hear which direction it's coming from, you're already dead.

The second issue is the goddamn charge time on that ultimate. I've come to believe that the reason they never realigned Junkrat's ultimate charge-time with other DPS's was due to him already having an extremely weak ultimate. But now, after the major buffs to his ultimate, it's not a ultimate shutdown every time he presses Q and the ability now charges way faster than it should for an ability that is extremely lethal.

They just need to increase the sound levels for the Rip Tire, and increase the time it takes to charge the ability by somewhere around 25%. I think that will make it a lot more fair to play against.
I mean, I get what you're trying to say, but this season has been out *for a single week*.
But she requires actual skill ^/s

Showing people how ridiculous their statements are is so fun :)


I dunno why you got downvoted, you're not entirely wrong. I think McCree and a good 76 shits on me more than Pharah does. But then again, maybe that's on me.
It's a lot easier to take advantage of pharahs with bad positioning now, so maybe that's what people mean by countering her.
Yah I try to avoid him unless I just saw him mine jump to my side and I know he's on cool down or when he's ulting, I try to always find him and kill him.
And the skill requirement to play some of these DPS heroes seems pretty exaggerated anyways. I mostly play Lucio and Junkrat myself. I used to believe the hype but I eventually figured out that Tracer and Genji aren't necessarily difficult, it's just that maximizing the final few % of their effectiveness is a bitch. I feel like I had to work far harder to get my McCree up to the standard of a Gold ranking than I did with the other two.

What exactly is wrong with flexing and its link with sr gains/losses?
I'm trying to wrap my head around the issue of flexing, and I get that your in-game performance affects your sr gains/losses which has problems of its own. But how does flexing negatively affect the amount of SR that you gain/lose? 

Is it because your performance metrics for a certain hero is compared against the total match-time? so if you only play a hero for a short amount of time and the match took a long time to complete then the game would think you did terrible since you have low performance metrics?

If this is the case, then why can't Blizz just compare your performance against the total time that you played a specific hero in that one match?

edit: Thanks for the responses. After reading through all of them I finally get whats going on. For those who are also confused, basically the game decides how well you did in a game by comparing your stats on a specific hero against other players that also play that hero, which includes one-tricks. Comparing a flex player against a one-trick is unfair because the one-trick will naturally have better mechanics and performance than the flex player on that specific hero. These one-tricks collectively increases the average stats required to get the performance SR bonus which flex players may struggle to reach. The idea of flexing having a negative influence on SR is that OTP's (one trick players) are going to be so good at their chosen hero that they increase the average that you get compared to when determining performance bonus when calculating SR. That makes it more difficult to earn that bonus. Some people believe it goes further than this and can actually hurt your SR but we don't know that for sure. It's purely speculation.

So, in order put a little confusion to rest (and possibly create more because there's so much we don't know) lets go over what we do know:

* Performance bonus SR compares your game play from your chosen hero to the average stats of other players also playing that hero. This much has been stated by Blizzard, officially. 

* Blizzard has also officially stated that Performance Bonuses only account for a **small** amount of your SR that you win. What "small" means has been debated because they have not given a specific figure. Personally, I speculate that it's no more than probably 5 SR gained for performing well and scales down to 0 based on performance compared to the average.

* Blizzard has *implied* but not confirmed that Performance Bonuses only **add** to SR and do **not** take away. They have never stated (that I am aware of) that you can actually lose SR based on poor performance. The statements they've made in regards to Performance Bonuses have only been in relation to *earning* and not reducing. Some people argue that if they add it for playing well they *have* to take it away for playing poorly or else it would inflate the system. **This is not true.** That would imply that for every point taken from a player it is given to another player. That's how the original Elo System was designed but not how it *has* to work. If that were the case then we would see other wild fluctuations from things like Underdog Bonuses and MMR influenced wins and losses.

* We know that there are a number of influences on how much SR you can gain and lose from the obvious winning and losing to underdog, MMR, out of placement bonuses (I'm not aware if this has been changed but I suspect it may have been altered at least since the new season places you differently than previous seasons), performance, and possibly others that we don't know about. Since the average anecdotal evidence suggests that approximately 25 SR is the average amount to win and lose then it would stand to reason that each of these bonuses may easily only account for upwards of 5 SR or so. Out of placement bonuses were implied to scale back from high amounts right out of placement to lower amounts as you continue playing. More on this next.

* Out of placement bonuses were confirmed to last upwards of 50 matches after finishing the 10 placement matches. It was stated that how long this lasts is "fuzzy," which implies a degrading amount over time. Possibly a fixed amount per player that can be earned over each game and may run out before 50 matches have been played but will last no longer than 50. Due to something like this, it can be very easy to confuse something like performance bonuses with placement bonuses.

* We know the match maker does a relatively good job, all things considered, of placing people in as even of a match up as possible. Of course it doesn't always feel that way in the game but when the system is looking at raw numbers it can only do so much since it can't determine that one or more people may want to play an unfamiliar character for some reason, or are tilted and having a bad day, or their little brother or sister is playing and they suck, etc... This being the case, underdog status is generally minimal. This is speculation of course but as implied by Blizzard in the past, the underdog bonus is meant to provide the team with the lower average SR less lost SR or more won SR if they win or lose against the higher team. Logic would suggest this scales depending on the difference between the two teams. When team averages are greater apart then this can contribute to a weird looking amount of SR won or lost. 

* MMR is meant to help keep people in their match making rank when things happen that could potentially lower their matchmaking placement in any given match. For instance, perhaps a 3000 player hops in a game with their 2000 friend and provide a team average of 2500 (supposing the other 4 are 2500 for easy math). We'll say the other team maybe has something similar so team averages are equal. If the 3000 player's team loses then theoretically they should lose more SR which would start to pull them down as they are playing 500 SR below their rank. It would stand to reason that if this player is losing to people 500 SR below them that maybe the don't belong at 3000, right? But this could easily be a fluke. If the system allowed this, even if it happened a few times in a row, this 3000 player could now be playing in low Plat/high Gold and would make other matches very unfair to those players there. So unless this player loses consistently in that rank then they will not fall so hard or fast due to MMR providing them a safety net for those fluke situations. These situations do happen frequently and can also cause SR wins and losses to look a little wonky.

The point to all of this (sorry I know it's long) is to express that there is so much going into how SR is calculated that we can't say for sure how much Performance effects our SR gains/losses. Good performance mitigates losses and capitalizes on gains but, likewise, so do other bonuses. We have no real evidence suggesting that poor performance will do the opposite and capitalize on losses and reduce gains. We also have no evidence proving it doesn't, either. We do have implications that suggest one thing or the other, though, and that suggestion is leaning towards Performance not taking away SR.

Playing flex vs OTP reduces your odds of playing on the same level as an OTP with any given character because you spread out your time and efforts on multiple characters, becoming a jack of all trades but master of none, so to speak. This doesn't specifically mean it hurts the flex player but rather it means it gives a bit of an edge to the OTP. On the flip side, anecdotal evidence has been pointing at the fact that flex players tend to win more matches than OTP's. Many OTP's have been ranking up with sub 50% win rates. Some being reported as low as 30'ish%. Their goal is to grind out the ranks. So they play and play and play. They may play 500 games to reach their goal and get really good at their character, but they're useless outside of that character and cannot contribute to the team if they get shut down pretty hard.

Because it takes so many games/hours to grab those ranks as OTP's (specifically talking about the OTP's who aren't naturally M/GM rank player anyway), I think it goes to show how little Performance Bonuses really apply to our SR.

Keep in mind, this is largely anecdotal evidence supplied by word of mouth by players in the game. It could be completely off base but, personally, I have a hard time ignoring the same stories from so many different people. I am also unable to link what proof I could provide at the moment as I do not have access to bnet forums to provide links to the blue posts confirming above information. Take this with a grain of salt if you wish but if you're interested in investigating further I think you'll find a lot of what I've said to line up with the evidence you'll find.


Two different concepts of flexing in play. One is looking at team comp at the beginning and trying to pick a hero to make that comp work. If that is not a hero you have much experience with, you gain less and lose more based on the performance based system, simply because you aren't going to be as good on that hero as on one that you main.

The second kind of flexing, which is what you are talking about, is more frequently referred to as "swapping", I believe. You analyze the enemy comp and your team together and try and and swap to a hero that works better given the totality. Even if you main that hero, if you only play the hero for a short time in a game, you might not even get one ultimate.

We don't know exactly what Blizzard does, but it may be that they expect you to get and use ultimates effectively for maximal SR gains. Or, say you switch on to a hero like Lucio to get back to the point faster for the last push, you still have less time on the point as compared to off the point, and you aren't really doing any stats gaining work when you are coming back to the point.

Regardless, the belief is that the system does take time on hero into effect, but that incredibly short swaps still get punished a little bit. However, if they actually lead to more wins, that is probably made up for.
no the problem is that you get compared to others of that hero on that map and chances are high that the otp tracer for example has better stats then your tracer(even if you did good and tracer was a good pick)
Good comments already posted here. I would only add, since there are already breakdowns (10 min averages) within the Blizzard stats drop down boxes, that may very well be the method they choose to measure your performance on any given hero. So....don't flex for less than 10 mins haha.....JK.

In reality, the entire point of flexing, or at least when you flex during the match by trying to find the hero to "save the day", is simply that if it works, and you save the day, then all is good and well and your SR will only rise. If it fails, and perhaps if you feel that your choice was desperation and that you actually didn't play that choice very well....then you could make the case for just staying on the hero you already had chosen. Most likely giving your team the best chance to win, and your SR to rise.

You can be either really good at one thing or kinda ok at a lot of things. If you're doing one thing better than everyone else you can climb. So basically the current SR and game in general encourages you to do that one thing very well and maybe another one just alright.
For example, today I learned that you can cancel your orb volley by using melee as Zenyatta. That will help me in team fights because I will not need to reload as much, and I can orb people faster. If I had sunk time into learning Zen, I'd know that before playing him. 
I'll say that I mostly agree with your post, but I want to point out one factual error:

>Many OTP's have been ranking up with sub 50% win rates. Some being reported as low as 30'ish%.

This isn't really true.  The idea came from screenshots taken early last season, where some OTP players placed rather high, but had majority losses in their next handful of games, leaving their win percentages low but their SR still high (because it hadn't had time to drop yet).  It's likely that these same players eventually leveled out around 50% like the rest of us, either by going on to win some games or by dropping in SR until they were at a more comfortable level.  The game counts present in those screenshots weren't really enough to draw any kind of real conclusions as it was still very early in the season.

Still, people on these subreddits went on to repeat the "OTP players can climb with 40% win rate" lie so much that it seemed like truth.  In reality, I haven't seen anyone post any evidence of players with sub 50% win rates "climbing" with any significance, and reports of the *dreaded* "Mercy OTPs" gaining 45 SR for wins seem like largely exaggerated anecdotes that have been repeated over and over like a bad conspiracy theory.

> I have a hard time ignoring the same stories from so many different people.

Unfortunately, the same lie repeated by a lot of different people all hearing it from each other and reinforcing it to each other is how misinformation spreads, and this kind of groupthink is one of the bigger problems with the reddit format.  Be wary!
Great post!

One other massive achilles heel of the diehard otp approach - what happens when your 'one trick' gets instalocked by someone else who won't switch! When a flex player's intended hero gets swiped, they simply shrug, pick someone else from their palette that complements the comp, and perform just as well as they usually do. The otp on the other hand, is 100% boned. I'm thinking that's got to contribute to the higher otp loss rate?
Give this guy some candy
Pretty sure this still uses ammo. But it does help to not give away your position sometimes
Ammo is used up as the charges get added. What you save by cancelling is time, and you don't pointlessly reveal your location with the sound when you have nothing to shoot at.
You can cancel it to avoid giving away your position or prevent yourself from shooting into a deflect/bubble.
>Unfortunately, the same lie repeated by a lot of different people all hearing it from each other and reinforcing it to each other is how misinformation spreads, and this kind of groupthink is one of the bigger problems with the reddit format. Be wary!

Yup. I haven't seen a single shred of proof from mid to late season, and most people balk when you ask. But streamers bashing on Mercy mains, and the general attitude of Mercy hate on the subs help this lie spreads. I see it called out pretty much every time it has been posted in the recent past, but the call outs rarely get upvoted.
The "lie" you claim is no more factual than the evidence supporting it in the first place. I can say from first hand experience that I've run into OTP's with 50+ hours in a season already with sub 50% win rates. In my experience, however, these were around 45-48%. Not very low, mind you, but still under 50%. People will naturally fluctuate though and someone who flexes may see anywhere from 40-60% win rates across characters as they're not always putting in tons of time on any one character. 40-60% are the extremes as far as I've seen with most people being 48-52% or so.

But like I said, this is expected of flex players and players who don't play as much but an OTP who has tons of hours on one character should, in theory, be at the very least 50% or higher.

I've also seen some screen shots pulled from stat tracking sites, like Overbuff or Masteroverwatch, of high ranking OTP's from the end of the season and have seen these as low as the mid 30's percentile. Evidence enough to prove it wasn't a "lie," however, the amount of supposed low win rate OTP's like this may still be exaggerated. 

This is why I said that there were merely "reports" of some as low as 30%. And perhaps to say "many OTP's" have ranked up under 50% win rate may be an exaggeration as well. But just as I don't have the solid numbers to show how many there really were neither is there any evidence to prove there weren't very many. 

I have, however, done some educated math and found that if my belief in the performance bonuses is true (and keep in mind my theory is pretty conservative compared to most) then the lowest win rate one could hold and still rank up, even if very slowly, was around 38% (38 games won out of 100 would net a positive 20SR if performance were consistently above average). This is, of course, excluding other SR factors. It is still entirely possible that a GM rank player could hold a 35% (or lower) win rate on Sombra and still be GM. Their MMR can keep them that high so losing 65% of their matches will only reduce a small amount of SR while their wins would produce more than enough to outweigh that lost amount.

Remember, this is all theoretical as we don't know how it all works. We can only make educated guesses.
It is highly likely. Of the OTP's I've personally run across, they usually have their main and the one other hero that only play when their main is instalocked and the player will not relinquish. I usually see this as a difference of like 50 hours in the current season of their main and maybe 1-2 hours of their off pick but rarely see more than 2 characters played for the season.

Instalocking an OTP's character often results in a lot of tilt for that match. The OTP will just shrug off the loss because they'll make it up across the next 10 (random number, possibly exaggerated, used for the purposes of making a point). It kind of ruins the whole experience for everyone involved. This is generally why OTP's are so hated. If they don't get their way then they force the whole team to lose by, effectively, becoming a troll. Whether they intend to or not that's essentially what they're doing.

Although, on the flip side, I get the argument that it's their game too and they should be allowed to play what and how they want. I agree with that to a very short extent, however. We all paid for the game and we all want to play who and how we want to play but we don't always get to and that's part of playing a multiplayer game. It's the same thing in, literally, every other sport on the planet (except solo sports). You can pay your dues and play on a basketball team but that doesn't mean you can get to always get to play how you want or what position you want. Just cause you had to pay for your uniform and any league fees doesn't mean you can be Center just because you want to. It doesn't mean you get to take every shot just because you paid to play. 

Social games don't work that way. OW is very much a social game along with being very competitive. So people should have to abide by the same social constructs as any other game. Sometimes you get benched. Sometimes you play a position you don't like. Sometimes you have to do things for the team to win and you don't get to be a selfish baby about it (you can probably see my bias against OTP's). 
Yup can confirm, the ammo is still expended if you melee cancel, but can certainly be well worth the sacrifice in order to manage your visibility.
Ah.
People *really* want to believe that an OTP player is higher rank than they are due to some glitch/imbalance in the system.

But really, it's just that the OTP is better than them.  

There's enough of a mix of OTPs and flex players in the system that the vast majority of games do not have OTP conflicts.  I know those stories pop up a lot on here but that's how negativity bias and confirmation bias work.

I'm willing to admit that a 3500 flex player is perhaps "better at Overwatch" than a 3500 OTP, but the fact remains that both players are good enough at their chosen skillsets to contribute at their SR.  And really, it's rare to find a flex player that plays more than 2-3 characters sufficiently well to pull their weight at their top rank.  It's also rare, in my experience, to find an OTP that doesn't have at least one other character that they can switch to when conflicts occur.

But, again, negativity bias and confirmation bias.  People will keep telling those stories about "that time a OTP conflict made us lose" and the mythology will continue. 
Just some nitpicks:

>The "lie" you claim is no more factual than the evidence supporting it in the first place.

>But just as I don't have the solid numbers to show how many there really were neither is there any evidence to prove there weren't very many.

The burden of proof goes to those making the positive claim.

If Person A makes an outrageous assertion, and Person B says "No I don't think that's true", it's on Person A to provide the proof - not Person B.

There simply is not sufficient evidence to make the claim that OTPs gain some kind of huge SR advantage over flex players of equal skill.  It's all hearsay and conjecture based on cherry-picked anecdotes.

>I've also seen some screen shots pulled from stat tracking sites, like Overbuff or Masteroverwatch, of high ranking OTP's from the end of the season and have seen these as low as the mid 30's percentile. Evidence enough to prove it wasn't a "lie," however, the amount of supposed low win rate OTP's like this may still be exaggerated.

Furthermore, **game count** would be very important.  I am skeptical that you could actually find end-of-season players with low win percentages and high game counts that did not consistently lose rank that season (remember, since SR is relative, ending SR isn't what matters - it's whether their SR rose or fell).  I'm willing to be proven otherwise but, again, the burden of proof is on you in this case.

>an OTP who has tons of hours on one character should, in theory, be at the very least 50% or higher.

An OTP with a reasonable number of games played should probably be at about the same win percentage as a flex with a reasonable number of games played, provided they both have a relatively stable SR.  Both types of players should still stabilize somewhere around 50%.  In theory, OTP players *might* have a slightly easier time getting to a higher SR (since they will naturally be better at their character than the flex), but still they should stabilize at that higher SR at around a 50% win rate given enough game time.  That's how the system works.
I agree with you on this. I don't believe OTP's are really as big of a problem as people make them out to be. Sure they're annoying but like in all things, people hang on to the negative stuff. An individual can play 6 games one night but the last one has an OTP that "lost them the match" and suddenly OTP's are the devil.

The problem with the high ranking OTP's were in the GM level of seeing so many Mercy mains in one game. When you reach the GM/T500 ranks you start seeing the same people over and over. The pool of individuals in matchmaking shrinks considerably and if there is an over abundance of Mercy OTP's (or any OTP overlap/conflict) then you're going to have problems. Where this gets exaggerated is people who follow the high ranking streamers that repeat how this "epidemic" is ruining the game. For 90% or more of the player base, its a relative non-issue, but for that small percentage of players and their viewers, it's a pretty big problem.

And like you've said, one person complains about it and others who've experienced it, if only once or some small number of times in the last 6 seasons, hop on the bandwagon making the problem look much worse than it is.
>The burden of proof goes to those making the positive claim.

I wasn't making any claim that stated OTP's have low win rates and still rise. I was simply reporting on what other's claimed. Therefore the burden of proof goes to whoever wants to dispute those claims as the one's who made those claims in the first place already provided their proof. So, if it needs to be debunked then the person disputing the claim needs to provide their evidence.

>If Person A makes an outrageous assertion, and Person B says "No I don't think that's true", it's on Person A to provide the proof - not Person B.

Again, I'm not the one claiming anything. Furthermore, there's nothing "outrageous" about the claims in the first place. They're completely reasonable even if unlikely. Since we don't know how the system works in it's entirety it's completely plausible. However, based on the implications made in official statements it seems unlikely. Still not any outrageous claim, I'd say. I've even done some math to estimate how it could work and how the claim would hold some water. I wasn't going to break it all down because it's ultimately irrelevant if we don't know what math to actually use. It was just an educated guess essentially. Nevertheless, it does prove how it could be possible.

>There simply is not sufficient evidence to make the claim that OTPs gain some kind of huge SR advantage over flex players of equal skill. It's all hearsay and conjecture based on cherry-picked anecdotes.

I'm afraid you may misunderstand my point. I am of the opinion that OTP's do **not** have some huge SR advantage. As a matter of fact, I state multiple times how unlikely it is that they have any significant advantage and the only advantage I believe they may have is quite small. I also made it a point to note that it's only my personal theory and that I, nor anyone else, knows for sure. Much like  you've stated, we can't make any definite claims and to that end I have not made any affirmative claims. I've only pointed out what has been factually acknowledge by Blizzard and what the community at large is in belief of as well as my own personal speculation. 

>Furthermore, game count would be very important. I am very skeptical that you could actually find end-of-season players with low win percentages and high game counts that did not consistently lose rank that season 

I highly doubt you can have a significant amount of hours in a competitive season (such as the 50+ I mentioned before) and have a low game count. Even with 5 round KotH maps of previous seasons, no one was going to have that many hours with a low game count. I've also explained how it's possible to gain and maintain a rank while still holding a low win rate. I could go deeper into the math and theory behind it but like the other stuff, it's all largely speculation to begin with. I can explain how it's possible but that doesn't prove it so. I'm not out to prove or disprove anything. I'm simply explaining what is the current and largely thought of reality, even if it isn't entirely correct. Since we'll never know for sure (as things currently stand) the best we can do is make our best guess and that's all I've provided.

>(remember, since SR is relative, ending SR isn't what matters - it's whether their SR rose or fell). I'm willing to proven otherwise but, again, the burden of proof is on you in this case.

In relation to the subject matter, the only thing that matters is how the SR rose to it's peak and how it maintained position relative to win %. I bear no responsibility in providing proof as I'm not the one making the claims. Once again, I'm merely reporting on the claims previously made. Dispute them if you like. It is all anecdotal evidence after all. So if you want to dispute that many claims then you're going to need to do a lot of leg work.

>An OTP with a reasonable number of games played should probably be at about the same win percentage as a flex with a reasonable number of games played, provided they both have a relatively stable SR. Both types of players should still stabilize somewhere around 50%. In theory, OTP players might have a slightly easier time getting to a higher SR (since they will naturally be better at their character than the flex), but still they should stabilize at that higher SR at around a 50% win rate given enough game time. That's how the system works.

There are so many falsities in this paragraph I hardly know where to begin. So I'll summarize it with this assumption: I'm guessing that you're comparing the total win % of the accounts of an OTP vs a Flex player. This is kind of an apples/oranges situation in relation to the subject of SR gain. The average player, flex or OTP, should level off around 50% win rate in theory. I think we all know that theory and practice aren't always the same. I have, personally, held mid 60% win rate on Soldier 76 for multiple seasons with more than enough games to consider that a constant. Soldier has been a character I play primarily but I don't *only* play him. I'm not a typical flex player but nor am I an OTP either. I have a main character or two that I prefer to play but am willing to flex beyond that to a total of a half-dozen or so characters on any given regular basis. I'm fairly proficient any them all but Soldier is by and far my best. My overall win rate on my account usually sits around 53-55% on average. I have a theory as to why I can maintain an above 50% average and only slowly rise but that's a long explanation for a different discussion as it gets a bit off topic here but for the purposes of making this point lets just agree that this is true because for all you know I could be lying. I'm not but you couldn't know that.

If I can maintain an above 50% win rate (well above 50% on a specific character) and not rise then it's entirely possible for an OTP below 50% to maintain a low win rate (even well below) and not fall. If it's true for one direction it must be true for the other direction. After all, we're playing by the same rules. 

The point is, regardless of whatever theory you want to believe, we can't know for sure since we don't know how the system works. My personal evidence lends to backing up claims of OTP's with low win rates. If I can have a high win rate and not rise then someone else should also be able to have a low win rate and not fall. The one thing I do stand firm on a believe is that I don't think it has nearly as much to do with Performance Bonuses as people tend to believe. I do think the public assumption of Performance is blown way out of proportion. The whole OTP thing could be as well. As a matter of fact, it wouldn't surprise me in the least. My point about OTP's is that I think it is completely possible, even reasonable to some extent, that there can be low win percentage players at high ranks. I don't think they make up the majority of OTP's though. Hell, I don't think the majority of those claimed to be OTP's are really even OTP's. I think they're a bit more like me with a majority of their play time on one toon but will easily play others.
>the one's who made those claims in the first place already provided their proof. 

I am asserting that *they did not*.  90% of the times I see this particular claim stated, no proof is provided, and the rest of the time it's "remember when that one guy posted Overbuff screenshots at the start of Season 5".

However, it otherwise seems we are in agreement on this point, so I don't see the need to write three paragraphs stating as much.

>I've also explained how it's possible to gain and maintain a rank while still holding a low win rate. 

On this note, I've just remembered something: before Season 6, they would artificially lower everyone's SR after placements, but leave MMR alone.  This probably inflated SR gains quite a bit, based on what they've revealed about the SR/MMR/MMR-confidence dynamic.

>So if you want to dispute that many claims then you're going to need to do a lot of leg work.

The burden of proof isn't on me.  I'm asserting that the people making the claims that get repeated over and over on here have not done the leg work in the first place.  It should be easy to prove me wrong, but it's not, because they didn't.

>The one thing I do stand firm on a believe is that I don't think it has nearly as much to do with Performance Bonuses as people tend to believe. I do think the public assumption of Performance is blown way out of proportion. The whole OTP thing could be as well. As a matter of fact, it wouldn't surprise me in the least.  My point about OTP's is that I think it is completely possible, even reasonable to some extent, that there can be low win percentage players at high ranks. I don't think they make up the majority of OTP's though. Hell, I don't think the majority of those claimed to be OTP's are really even OTP's. I think they're a bit more like me with a majority of their play time on one toon but will easily play others.

We're in agreement here! 

>There are so many falsities in this paragraph I hardly know where to begin.

Which makes this comment kind of dickish *and* incorrect.

I didn't think I needed to state this, but my comments about people "stabilizing" around 50% was meant to be taken as "in general, on average, etc".  Obviously it's possible for outlier situations to happen for one reason or another, in one direction or another.  As you say, we don't know all the details.

Also, you said the dickish thing about me being wrong and then went on to submit evidence that backed up my claim:

>My overall win rate on my account usually sits around 53-55% on average.

"Only slowly rising" is still "rising".  Which is what you'd expect with a 55% win rate.

___

**tl;dr - It feels like we're arguing semantics at this point.  I originally just took issue with the fact that that you chose to repeat an unverified, oft-repeated *myth*, and you seem to agree with me that it's probably a myth.**
I wasn't making any "dickish" comments. I merely stated that what you stated was wrong and then clarified that I believed what you were trying to say is a generalized statement of something that cannot be generalized in that way. Comparing a flex player's win rate of their account vs an OTP win rate of that single character is not a apples to apples comparison and shouldn't be treated as such. Not within the confines of how much SR one may gain based on performance factors. Which is what this discussion has, mostly and originally, been about. 

That, in and of itself, is all I targeted about being wrong, not your opinion of how the system works which appears to line up with mine. The only other thing I'd say you may be wrong about is the possibility that an OTP can have a low win rate and still rank up. I'm not suggesting it's the norm or even that it may be all that common, but I do believe it happens. There's math that even suggests that it can. I wasn't arguing your overall opinion. It matches mine so why would I say you're wrong and then prove you right? That's absurd. Not be attacking here but you're the one that started arguing with me when you shared my opinion in the first place. 

And regarding win rate: When I say slowly, I mean snail paced, insanely slow. Like netting +50 SR after 200 games slow. A 55% win rate should theoretically rise a bit faster than "slowly." But as our SR system isn't that simple it allows for so many seemingly one-off situations that can hinder that progress. Over many games and hours perhaps we'd start seeing certain trends if every detail was analyzed but seeing as no one is really doing that it's kind of hard to pin-point what parts of the system are possibly contributing and by how much. Those that have tried to analyze this kind of info have done so with the express purpose of trying to prove it was Performance Bonuses skewing the math. And I believe we've already covered where we stand on that.

As you mentioned, previous seasons did have one's SR artificially lowered so that we could "climb the ladder," as Blizzard put it. They also gave us out-of-placement bonuses to compensate for that. I'm not certain if those bonuses are still in effect or if they have been altered any. My original post goes into how they work and my personal theory as to how much they can contribute. But what it goes to show is that if a person's rank was lowered by 200'ish SR and then they climbed by that amount and stayed in that range all season then their ending SR is approximately where they should be. If an OTP did this, even if they started high, and stayed there then that means they belong there but if they're staying there with a low win %, especially a considerably low rate, then something must be a bit in favor of OTP's in regards to how much SR they gain. Now, a 48% win rate is reasonable to maintain position. Just like a 53% is understandable to sit in the same relative position. However, someone with a 37% win rate shouldn't reasonably be sitting in the same position nor should they be "slowly" rising. I would understand a few fluke matches preventing from dropping but a low win percentage like that is no fluke.

Now, I've seen that evidence. I know it exists and that's enough for me to know that it's even possible in the first place. Even if it's only one person. Even if it's an extreme example. All that shows me is that there are others who are also very likely gaining the same advantage, only their advantage is hidden among higher win rates so it's more difficult to say for sure that the advantage even exists. Remember, I don't think any advantage here is very much of one to begin with. Therefore, I'm not worried nor am I complaining about it. I'm simply observing it. Also to reiterate, I'm not the one making the claims. Only observing that the advantage may very well be real but since we can't say for sure I don't confirm any belief in it for certain. I only acknowledge the possibility.

I do apologize for repeating myself so often. It's a C.Y.A. tactic I've picked up as many redditors like to ignore past comments and only focus on the immediate comment in front of them and try to pick apart parts of a discussion to fit their own argument. Restating my stance reduces anyone's ability to do so. It keeps a frame of reference for my position as I expand on it. Often times one's opinion of a topic is greater than a black and white outlook.
>Comparing a flex player's win rate of their account vs an OTP win rate of that single character is not a apples to apples comparison and shouldn't be treated as such.

I think this is our fundamental disagreement, because I think it absolutely can/should be treated as such.  I'm not sure what other metrics you might have to go on, especially when the metrics being used against OTP players are exactly win percentage and SR gains, and Blizzard has told us that performance gains are not large.  They've also told us that MMR-confidence is shaken by win/loss streaks.  Someone with a high or low win percentage is probably going to have some of those.

___

Which is not to say that the two approaches don't have separate caveats.

If you're a "flex" player playing at 3500 and you flex to a character you think your team needs, but only play that character at a 2000 SR level, you are doing your team a disservice, you are going to lose more often than not, and your overall win percentage is going to suffer as a result, as it should.  It's not automatically a virtue to be willing to switch.

Similarly, a OTP player is going to occasionally create losing situations themselves, either by participating in a team comp that doesn't suit their character/playstyle, refusing to swap heroes when an enemy team is making their hero/playstyle untenable, or encountering mirror OTPs on their own team that force them to play a character that they're bad at.  These losing situations are also going to adversely affect *their* win percentage.

What can we compare these two players on if not win percentage and SR gains?

To reiterate, since you're fond of that:

If being an OTP is really a problem, then that player will lose, and their SR will likely reflect that. 

If a flex player is as impactful as they think they are by switching to suit the situation and team, then they will win, and their SR will reflect *that*. 
I think you're still missing what I'm saying.

Comparing performance based SR gain of an OTP to a flex player based on the account win % is misleading. You'd need to look at the hero that the OTP plays and compare that to the same hero of the flex player in order to gauge anything with any kind of accuracy when trying to gauge how much SR is performance based. Remember, of course, the other factors and that we don't know how much of the SR won or lost is attributed to which factor. But if we removed the other factors and assumed it was only performance then you can't look at all of the characters a flex player plays and compare the SR gained from them to how much an OTP wins when they only play one hero. You're not going to learn anything.

Honestly, what you'd need is even more specific than that. You'd need a flex player and an OTP who play the same hero, are of the same rank/skill, match them against equal teams with the same characters played, situations that would be identical and so on, only then could you even begin to gauge how much more an OTP is earning over a flex player. Barring that, seeing as it's all impossible, the best we can do is look at multiple games of both players (and by multiple I mean many multiples, potentially in the thousands) to start finding any correlations. You couldn't even begin to compare a Sombra OTP to a flex player who didn't even play Sombra to begin with. Or even comparing them to any other hero of the flex player still doesn't permit any grounds to make any solid assumptions about how performance SR is or is not in favor of OTP's. 

Of course, this all piles into the same opinion we share in that we don't know how any of it works so we can't even feasibly begin to make these assumptions based off of comparing a flex to an OTP. We have to look at other perimeters to start making any real speculations.
Oh, and something I forgot to mention and didn't want to ninja edit so it didn't get missed.

Bliz has also officially stated that MMR confidence is effected by how frequently a player plays. So someone who plays multiple matches per night will have a more confident MMR than, say, someone who only plays a few matches per week. Now, the time frame I used to exemplify the explanation is partially speculated by me because they didn't give a specific time frame of how long or infrequent playing needed to be in order for the MMR system to lose confidence.

OTP's are pretty typically playing *a lot* of games. Even if they do run into any win/lose streaks they likely don't last long and the frequency of their games may even out weigh any lost confidence due to streaks. For that matter, we also don't know if or how MMR may have been effected by the change in streaks near the end of S4.

The streak change was, as far as we know, made to correct SR fluctuation but SR also influences MMR so it's not beyond reason to suspect, or even assume, that the changes in streaks (lowering their effects on SR) may also lower changes in MMR which in turn only solidifies confidence in a players MMR. This, in turn, also lends to the idea that an OTP can carry a low win rate but still maintain their rank and even, given ample time, rise in ranks.
>I think you're still missing what I'm saying

Yeah, I get what you're saying now, and I agree.  Not really sure how we got here.  My only objection to your earliest comment was that you were repeating an unsubstantiated myth.  Now we're arguing in circles about who knows what because you came at me with some [garbage](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Argument_from_ignorance) about how I have to *substantiate* that the myth is unsubstantiated and our wires got crossed along the way.

>But just as I don't have the solid numbers to show how many there really were neither is there any evidence to prove there weren't very many.
___
>if you want to dispute that many claims then you're going to need to do a lot of leg work.

As for the rest of this conversation, *yes*, if we're talking about the performance *portion* of SR gains specifically, then comparing flex vs OTP becomes a much more complicated endeavor.
>OTP's are pretty typically playing a lot of games.

I've never heard/seen anything to suggest that OTP players typically put in more hours than flex players.

1 Tip for McCree Against Every Hero | Tips and Tricks
This video is meant to help you with your McCree play. I go over every matchup for McCree and give you a tip that can make playing against each hero easier (whether that's learning new information about them or teaching you a trick to directly make the matchup easier). With all these in mind, especially if you're new to McCree this should make him a bit easier to play even though he's very aim dependent. 

Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rYwigAEZgw0

The idea for this video came from KarQ and PvPtwitch. They made the same type of video but for Junkrat instead. Check out their video here: https://www.youtube.com/user/KarQGames

EDIT: 

**TEXT FORMAT**

**OFFENSE**

**Doomfist**: You can't stun doomfist while he's using Rocketpunch. Instead, you should either stun him while he's charging up or hide around a corner and stun him afterwards for an easy kill.

**Genji**: You can get around Genji's deflect if throw your flashabng above or around Genji to prevent it from getting deflected

**McCree**: Generally when at a distance, the McCree with better aim is going to win. When you're close range, chances are you're both going to flash each other. If you can time your flash just after the enemy McCree uses his, you will have a bit of an advantage since when his stun on you wears off your stun will still be active.

**Pharah**: Try to fight pharah on high ground. When she approaches, you'll have likely have opportunties to stun her to make the fight easier. Not only that, fighting her at a less elevated angle will make it easier to hit her.

**Reaper**: McCree's dead eye will charge while Repear is in wraith form meaning that you can instantly kill him when his comes out of it.

**Soldier 76**: Try not to fight Soldier 76 at longer ranges. His weapon has better long range capabilities. Fighting him short to mid range is preferred so that you can burst him quickly with two headshots. If you manage to fight him short range a quick combat roll into a fan the hammer will quickly eliminate him.

**Sombra**: If you see Sombra's Translocator at a healthpack,  you can wait for her to teleport back.  Wait for her close range and stun with flashbang then fan the hammer for an easy kill

**Tracer**: Tracer can be difficult to hit especially if she's blinking around a lot. Throw your flashbang at the floor near her feet to activate it quicker to increase our chances of stunning her.

**DEFENSE**

**Bastion**: When fighting against a bastion you have two different combos which can help you easily kill him. If he's in recon mode Headshoting him with a left click, stunning him then headshotting him again will result in him dying. Stunning him first  then headshotting him twice however will not kill him due to the armor reduction that he has. Another option to kill Bastion when he's in recon mode is to headshot him with a left click, stunning him then using fan the hammer. I  would recommend using the first option though since it shouldn't be too difficult to hit his head while he's stunned and you also save ammo compared to the fan the hammer option. If you manage to get behind him while he's in sentry mode, left clicking him twice with one of them being a headshot, flash banging him then using the remainder of your bullets to fan the hammer will ensure that you kill him.


**Hanzo**: Hanzo players will generally jiggle peak corners. You can throw you flashbang on the other side of the wall he's jigglepeeking then combat roll into a fan the hammer to take him out.

**Junkrat**: Some Junkrat players will use their ultimate when your decide to deadeye, reason being that deadeye doesn't target his riptire. Since your ultimate charges so fast, it's often times okay to trade ultimates in this case. Even if you were previously fighting someone, popping your ultimate will replenish your ammo so, when he uses riptire, cancel your own ultimate and take out his tire.

**Mei**: When fighting Mei, if you manage to stun her be sure to use Fan the hammer right away to ensure that you kill her. If your ever so slightly slow or have high ping, she will have enough time to Cyro-Freeze and protect herself.

**Torbjorn**: if you're low on Hp and need to take out a torbjorn turret, using the combo: flash gernade -> FTH -> meele will quickly destroy it.


**Widowmaker**: When Flanking Widow make sure to crouch. McCree has loud footsetps, crouching will allow you to get close to her without being detected as long as you're not hit by her vemon mine. If you end up getting deteteced by a her venom mine then if you're close to her, comat rolling to close the gap then flash banging her and using fan the hammer will take her out.

**TANK**

**D.va**: You can Stun D.va's mech when she ults causing it to stop. You can use this as a way to prevent D.va from thorwing her mech to her intended location to prevent her from getting kills.

**Orisa**: Use fan the hammer into combat roll into another fan the hammer to assist breaking Orisa's shield quicker. You can stun her over her shield like Reinhardt but she has to be close to her shield otherwise it won't reach.

**Reinhardt**: Throw your flash bang above Reinhardt's shield to stun him. His shield will go down which will give you and your team an opportunity to capitalize

**Roadhog**: Save flashbang for when he uses his take a breather to prevent him from healing and reducing damage by 50%

**Winston**: If Winston happens to jump on you, thorw you flashbangat the ground to instatnly stun him. If you dealt damage to him with left clicks as he was jumping towards you, it should be easy to kill him or bring him to a fairly low amount of hp with fan the hammer. if you're low on bullets, combat roll to replenish your bullets before attempting to finish him off.

**Zarya**: Vs Zarya there are two things to look for: To see how charged she is and if she has her personal bubble. Unless she manages to get close to you with high amount of energy it's generally easy to duel her since you can pelt her down with left clicks while her waste her personal bubble. It's very easy to prevent yourself from continuously shooting zarya's bubble if you're using left clicks. If she has low energy, you can be more aggressive but will still ahve to keep in mind of her personal bubble unless she has it on cooldown.

**SUPPORT**

**Ana**: Similar to Widowmaker. If you're in a position to flank, croyuch when you're approaching her to mask your footsteps.

**Lucio**: While Lucio is wall riding, throw your flashbang just slightly ahead of where he's going to ensure hitting him. This will slow him down and allow you to easily kill him.

**Mercy**: McCree's deadeye will charge while enemies are invulnerable from Mercy's ultimate. This means that you can pretty much instantly kill targets after they've been resurrected.

**Symmetra**: Grenade has quite a large aoe. Symmetra's will typically have her turrets together in a tight space which allows you to destroy them with a single flash bang

**Zenyatta**: Zenyatta's ultimate can sometimes make it seem like enemies are invulnerable since he heals them so quickly. To take them out, you can use your ultimate:  dead eye since it will one shot your target. Against a zen ult it's better off used when you have cover that being behind a Reinhardt shield or around a wall. When using around a wall if you want to avoid taking agro, use it while hiding then come out a few seconds later. Your enemies will feel like they're safe since they can't see you and will continue fighting your allies.



Would be kind of nice to have this in a text format. Some of us are working and have to slack off quietly.
Good video!  Definitely some gems in there, that quick Torb Turret destruction one is great.  I'd previously been peek-fan-peek-fanning to kill them.
1- Stunning D.Va's mech caught me off guard, didn't know you could do that. Pretty useful!
2- As you can see in Orisa's example, Flashbang's range is bullshit.

EDIT: I really don't know how I made the font bigger, but it wasn't intended and it's fixed lol
Also, my phone typed a non English word in there by mistake, which is also fixed 
Great video.  Learned a lot.  Thanks.
Stunning D.Va mech and the turret combo are two things I had no idea about. Also I didn't realise how many shots it took to kill Bastion
Would you recommend setting flashbang as right click or keep it as default?
Yes indeed, muchly appreciated be thine knowledges, yet I may admonish that it is only a shitty shitty shitty Symmetra who places all her turrets in one place like a dumbass.
Modus hates him, click here to see why!
#1 tip for McCree against every hero

 1. Shoot other heroes in the face.

Personally I do think that Mcree can do insanely well against a tracer since a flash+ head is a guaranteed kill. With only a bit of practice tracers should hate you.
this is cool. would love one for reaper.
Thank you. I'm was not so much into mccree but this helps. I will check your channel. Your content seems good.
ahh, a good ol' game o' flashy-shooty 
what makes you think you can fight a zarya? she has a 15m beam and will rek you even with 20-30% energy easily
Great informational video and I appreciate you linking the Junkrat 1-Tip. 

For a brief time I had a McCree Mentor and my biggest challenge was remembering how many bullets I had left. 6 shots go so fast. Nothing like using Fan the Hammer with one bullet. This video helped fill in the gaps of my knowledge.
ITT: Stun them with a flashbang and then kill them.
I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/mccreemains] [1 Tip for McCree Against Every Hero | Tips and Tricks](https://np.reddit.com/r/McCreeMains/comments/6yfjjs/1_tip_for_mccree_against_every_hero_tips_and/)

[](#footer)*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*

[](#bot)
Another minor tip v Winston when your losing the fight rather than winning: if you roll backwards as you approach 30 health, you can make him whiff a melee and give you another second to fight. I've previously just assumed I killed a McCree and jumped away before realizing my mistake.
> *Bad* Symmetra's will typically have her turrets together in a tight space

Good ones usually space them 8m - 10m apart. Better tip is to wait for Photon Barrier, walk through, then flash bang.
This is going into my files as a quick link for people who complain that mcree isn't a strong hero.

Every single one of these tips can help to win a team fight 
A better mcree vs mcree tip would be shot when you flash. This way when you both come out of flash, you have an advantage
(if you hit). Also the Torb turret and Bastion tips i have to try thanks!
tip vs all mccrees: wait until they jump and then shoot where they're gonna land
Many of these seem to be very basic knowledge, I watched the PVPTwitch twitch video you talked about when it came out and I felt like the content of it was at a deeper level. I mean no disrespect when saying this but apart from some things such as mcrees flash stopping dva's ult or mcrees ult being able to targed a wraith form reaper the tips are all very basic.

The "crouch to mask the sound of your footsteps to get closer to targets" isnt really target dependent its also situational depends on how big of a fight is already happening or if you're initiating the fight with your pick, its also not a mcree tip its a general hero tip.

Another one that is basically possible with any hero is camping sombras translocator, I mean this really isnt a mcree specific tip just because you throw a flash when she teleports back.

I feel like you should have also taught people which heros are 1 hit headshots as you often advise to fan the hammer after a flash but as you get good at mcree this isnt really needed, most players only fan the hammer on characters they have to or aren't sure they are going to 1 shot (situational). An example being a genji still falling for his jump so you're unsure you could hit the 1 shot you fan him instead.

tl:dr These tips lack depth and some could be generalized to most heroes

EDIT: Grammer 
Say no more, text version is now available.
Seconded, as a McCree main at work I would love a text version.
Thanks
The first one doesn't sound right to me.
Thanks
I keep it as default. If you switch flashbang to right click what are you going to switch fan the hammer to?
There is literally only one skill necessary when playing Symmetra and it's "where she hides her shit". How do people fuck that up so consistently?
<3
It's really just a skill-based match-up. Practice a lot and you'll run rings around worse Tracers, but that starts to change when you play against better Tracers.
Reapers basically "get all up in everyone's face and shoot them dead" and "time your wraith to avoid ults". He's actually extremely easy and fun to play. 
Thanks :^)
You da real OP. 

Thanks a bunch.
Great! Can I be a dick and ask you put it in a format so that I don't have to scroll 3 miles to get to the comments? Maybe spoiler warning? 
DONE :^)
works [like so](https://gfycat.com/AnxiousDishonestAxisdeer)
Sorry, English isn't my first language :/
Fan the hammer on E which used to be flashbang?
...nope. Many skills associated with playing Symmetra. Yes, turret and ult placement, but also: What ult? When orbs vs beam? Whom to target? When to push? Ult timing? Positioning? Turret conservation? 

No hero has "literally" one skill required to play it. That's like saying "McCree just needs to shoot the enemy in the face. Easy." or "Zen just needs to call out his discords." Just because Symm doesn't require aim doesn't mean she's a no-skill (or even low-skill) hero. There's a reason Overwatch isn't just target practice (like Aim Hero) - aim is not everything.
I think the only other way is to have it as a picture. People were asking for a text format ;;
If you press the comment symbol at the bottom of the screen it scrolls to the comments for you 
You absolute legend <333333333333
After you fixed your comment, I can say your English is fine. At first I was really confused.
I suppose you could but I personally would just get mixed up. I'm already so used to having flashbang on e and I don't see any benefit personally to switching it. Did you have a reason for doing it in mind?
As I said, just me being a dick, and getting used to reddit wizard that know how to format :p
So was I, after I went back and looked at it lol 
Easier to aim the flash cause you have full movement instead of taking a finger off wasd? Harder to fth though
That's fair. If you have additional buttons on your mouse you could perhaps change it to one of those so that you don't hinder your movement. I do this for Zenyatta's Discord orb. I have it on mouse wheel since constantly pressing E is annoying and it feels a lot smoother to just have it on mousewheel. 

It could work for McCree as well but his cooldowns are much longer. Zenyatta's discord orb pretty much doesn't have one and it's used a lot more frequently.

Stop the payload?
I very recently picked up Overwatch. Me and my friends (They also recently started playing) Are having real issues with winning games where we have to defend the payload. Anyone got any tips?Sometimes it's okay to let the enemy make distance if it means your team is able to regroup and fight as six - Payload maps usually have corners/chokepoints along their routes which can be a great place to attempt a hold

I've had maaaaany games where you can easily make it from point A to B on attack because there's six of you on the payload and the enemy just keeps throwing themselves one by one (or two at a time) at us. 
Take this very casually: just keep playing and you'll figure it out. Generally, you don't want to stand right on the payload. Instead, you want to hold it at a chokepoint or from high ground. Only your tanks need to be contesting it, everyone else should be playing safe and supporting the tanks. Also, just see what the other team does that works and copy that.

Look at Route 66. Most teams hold from on top of the gas station or right in front of it. The enemy has to come around the corner in order to do anything and they have no high ground or anything to contest from. However, if you try to defend right on the payload in front of the spawn, the enemy will overwhelm you with spawn advantage (super healing, invulnerability, no walk after respawns). Eventually you will lose the fight and by the time you get back to contest again, they'll have cleared the strongest hold points.

Dorado is another good example. The archway into the plaza is a strong choke point that a lot of teams successfully hold.
I would fully agree. After your team has lost a point, group up as a team and don't let the enemy snowball the map. Try to think of each point similarly to a 2cp point. Establish where your team will set up (preferably around high ground and a choke) and hold there. Remember, for the enemy team to win they have to play the objective so let them fight into you and don't push up unnecessarily. If your whole team does this, it gives the enemy team less opportunities for picks and map control. When your team has the advantage is when you should push up (as a team) and finish the enemy team off with out over extending for maximum ult charge. Hope this helps. 
Thank you for the advice, I will try to put it to use for my next game :)

Mid/High Gold Mercy - please review my VOD
Hello everybody,

first of all I would like to thank this sub for all those great tips, tricks and news you gave me so far.

Sometimes I see people on this sub who post videos of their matches in order to being reviewed and guided by others and as the overall reactions seemed to be very helpful I wanted to give it a try. I would like to ask you to check out a video of me playing Mercy in competitive mode. 

I started playing Overwatch during the Uprising event (march?) and took a break from may to august. So the last two seasons have been rather short for me#

* Season 4: Gold- only did 10 placements - 2200

* Season 5: Gold- placed at around 2200, worked up to 2422 and fell down to 2385 on the last day. I felt like I could get to platinum but I didnt manage to get there on the last few days of the season. This was the first season where I mained Mercy

* Season 6: Gold- Went 9-1 in my placements and only got  to 2435. Lost some games down to 2300 and now back up to about 2400. 

I dont feel like I could be competing in platinum now as the games seem much harder (or more fitting to my skill level) on gold. Although I often feel like I dont have a lot of impact as a Mercy and are mainly dependent on my team composition and their level of skill.

I recently started recording the stats of every game I do and comparing them to each other. I view a lot of other vods and guides and try to implement the seen into my gameplay. Also today I started recording my games and watching them afterwards in order to spot mistakes and improve. I think I make some good moves as a support and have very bad moments on the other hand.
 
I picked an average round I think, was not my worst but also no really highlight (although we lost this round we won 2-1 in the end :) ). What I struggle most with is staying alive I guess. Most of the time it is clear to myself why I died, but it is hard to turn those habits of. But feel free to point out all the other mistakes I did and maybe even how to fix them. That would be very appreciated. Thank you!

Here it is: [Link](https://youtu.be/uSGa5vmNJus)

Edit: Minor text fixes0:07: I personally like to hold down db/heal as we run from spawn immediately, rather than waiting until we're near enemies

0:14: I see no use of damage boost so far. Mercy doesn't gain ult charge for healing full healthed people, but does when her DB targets land shots. Get comfortable with being able to swap super fast between heal and damage boost by tapping your buttons

0:23: This exactly would be a perfect damage boost moment

0:28: As would this

0:30: Staff isn't attached to anything, consider pulling out the pistol 

0:35: Another good DB moment

0:49: Like here is where I'd be using DB a lot when everyone's good and you're up numbers. 

1:55: More Damage boost moments

2:01: Could have been damage boosting Soldier

2:18: First death! A little unfortunate. I think you kinda choked up around 2:16 - you turn around and stand still for about a second. Here you should have aimed to have kept moving around the back of the point - turning around is probably a bit slower on console than PC so I wouldn't recommend it. Instead I'd use sound queues and my own game sense to play with the assumption that they're behind me and focus on moving away.

3:08: Another death - Hmm, maybe you could positioned yourself off the point? However, that would have left you exposed to left area/doorways from enemy spawn. In your shoes, I would have healed from off point which quickly looking around to see if anyone was after me. 

4:08: You wander onto the point alone while some of your team is dead. Here it would have been much better to back off and regroup. Here you're giving the enemy ult charge from killing you without making an impact - you want to avoid doing this as it's known as feeding

In Summary, you are waaaaay under-using damage boost. This is leading you to less ult charge because you're healing people are full, meaning you're getting ult quite slowly on a character who can get it very fast

[Here's a VOD of me from around 4050~ - I've linked to a part where it shows some DB usage](https://youtu.be/6LNqfhdpRpg?t=59s). I try to get to Reinhardt but stick with DB'ing Zenyatta with the intentional that I would swap when he was in view. By 2 minutes in, I have just over 400 damage amplified while yours is about 60 - get comfy with DB and you can hit those numbers pretty easily! 

In case you watch the whole thing (don't feel obliged to), I don't play perfectly (missed a shitload of solo rez opportunities and then by the time I do solo rez, it's not a good one. Also my first death to Symmetra was 100% my own fault and not something I should have groaned at) but damage boost is something I use a shitload of and may give some insight there
200+ hours on mercy here

Decent healing.. but I found myself wondering why you weren't damage boosting when you could have been.  I see your beam tethered to full health targets, basically not doing anything as they weren't even taking damage. 

Moreso, I saw you pull out your gun a few times... I just want to point out a few of your teammates actually died because of this.  Had you of been damage boosting your DPS it would have been quicker to switch over to your healing beam when they needed it, probably saving them. 

Other than that, basic positioning. I'm sure you know not to run in front of hog and other enemies, so I won't lecture about it. Just stand next to cover so you can easily dip out of line of sight if you begin getting targeted.  I saw you used it sometimes, and others you didn't, and luckily the enemy team wasn't focusing you so you weren't punished.  In higher ranks you will be though, so it's a good habit to get into. 
Hi! 150+ hours on Mercy, and I'm diamond. I'm also a pretty aggressive Mercy player who doesn't tend to hide out in holes. 


0:13: Right off the bat I'm noticing that you aren't damage boosting. Your teammates are full health, and you are at an advantage at this point to damage boost your damage dealers, which could potentially help them get picks. 


0:19. You spend a lot of time trying to anticipate damage that is incoming. You could be damage boosting here, which would allow your DPS to get more picks. I usually don't pour heals into someone unless they are at about 1/2 to 1/4 health. 


0:25: Decent use of GA here, You saw your lucio was low, and that you had an immediate threat (who was focused on your rein) so you took the opportunity to GA to lucio, getting yourself out of the hogs path. It was a smart move, which also allowed you to keep your secondary healer up.

0:32, you could have hit the space bar and hovered  and bought yourself enough time to GA back into the room, which would have given you more opportunity to damage boost your teammates, instead o fusing the stairs. 

0:42 Nice pick on the fetus Dva

0:51 DB more. All of your teammates are at a decent enough health. 

1:05 Use that hover method to just fly back up through that window, make sure your damage boosting, you are healing way too much, which is partly why your ult is charging so slow. 

1:57. Decent rez, however I'm not sure why your tanks are pushing so far up and your damage dealers fell back, I would recommend at this point getting in comms and telling them to back up since you just used rez. If they go in too deep and get picked off, you all are going to get screwed. 


2:10 Damage boost

2:20 Instead of pulling out your pistol and standing still, you should have kept moving around the back side of the point towards the health pack. It looks like you hesitated a bit, and in my experience, when you hesitate you're more than likely going to get picked off. Especially with a high damage reaper and solider staring into your soul. 


2:44 Damage boost your solider 


3:08 Not sure if I would have pulled out my pistol here. You guys were down a couple and fairly spread out. Your best bet would have been to latch onto a DPS or tank and damage boost them to get out and regroup. 


3:32 Damage boost solider 

4:08 Not sure why you walked onto the point?? Would have been better to back off and regroup. 


Overall, your healing isn't bad, but you need to use damage boost more. The more you use it, the faster your ult will charge. I usually get my ult within the first 2 minutes of any game I'm in because I utilize my DB. Your doing a mostly good job with positioning minus a couple of small screw ups. I would recommend just making sure you know who is around you, and calling out to your teammates when you need help in the back line. Utilize GA more to get around the map and zip form player to player. This will make you hard to hit, and will keep you alive longer. 



If you have any questions, feel free to message me! I'm always around to help out a fellow Mercy friend!
I second this 
Thanks for the comprehensive answer. I totally agree with you, especially that I should be damage boosting more, will definitely work on it.
I watched your VOD and it is nice to see a higher skilled Mercy also doing mistakes while still doing a great job overall. I prefer this to a highlight only montage of a top500 player.
> a few of your teammates actually died because of this

Somehow this sounds really cruel. But you are right. :)
Positioning is something I have to improve for sure. As you said I had not been focused by my enemies this time but in games where that was the case I have a lot of trouble.

Hey, thank you for your in-depth analysis and especially your recommendations on how to improve. I appreciate it. If i got some urgent questions I wont hesitate to contact you.
Lol yeah I can see how that sounds. It's a pet peeve of mine to be honest. I see a lot of mercys do this and I also see a lot of their teammates die because of it. In the upcoming mercy changes though I'll have to get over it, as there will be times when it is appropriate. 
No problem! :) 

how many hours for my winrate to mean something?
So as the title says, looking at all competitive seasons, how many hours do I need to have with a certain character to be sure about my winrate with him? I started playing in s2 where I spent most of my time in silver (as low as the 1600s), and my career high is in the 2900s last season, currently sitting in the 2600s. I realize there's quite a skill gap from when I first started playing, but bearing that in mind, can I learn something from looking at my total time played with each hero and their winrate? Except for doomfist who I haven't had time to practice yet, I have at least 2 hours on each hero.It's all up to interpretation really, if you have low time played but 50% winrate it could be good or bad due to many factors. If you have lots of time however that 50% is probably good, but it's still 50% so is it really different? 

I think time played is a better predictor, because.. 

Even if you lost more in the beginning, after 100+ hours you are going to know *much more precisely how to move and use your skills*. So your earlier winrates may negatively effect your total winrates but your playstyle will be significantly better.
Basically, it means more the more time you've played, and means nothing for the first two hours. A ten hour winrate is real and relevant, but not as much as a fifty-hour winrate. You know your winrate is stable if it's basically the same after ten more games on that hero.
Roughly 50 matches played is enough to give an accurate win rate.

For people who play a lot, their win rate drops over time because each loss starts to count for more, so it's not surprising for people who upwards of 100-200 games or more to have less than 60% win rate.
It depends:

My junkrat on Comp have 75% winrate while the total of Comp+QP is 44% (I lose a lot on QP since no one goes heals and keep asking me to go heals since I'm a main Zen+Lúcio)

But if you look only to comp, 10+ hours can say how good you're doing on a hero.

But stats can be decieving, I have 60% win rate as Lúcio and more than 100 hours on him, but I'm doing pretty bad with him lately since I played him a lot less for the last months.
5 hours. At that point, any single win or lose will modify your win rate by 2% maximum.
I have answered a similar post some time ago, it might be helpfull.
Short answer is winrate is totally meaningless under 5hours and should not be taken seriously under 10hours

[post](https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/6vakd7/how_many_hours_do_you_need_on_a_character_to_take/?st=j7a2p8lg&sh=f919e142)
I'd say three with a good Wingate being between 45-60%
Yeah but what constitutes as low time? I'm a flex player so my playtime tends to be distributed somewhat evenly. I have some "go to" heroes like lucio, mccree, and dva (who I have a disapointing 48% winrate with, and I just noticed) but like I said my least played characters (sombra and orisa) I have 2 hours on them, then goes sym, reaper, and bastion at 4, then junkrat, hanzo, and mercy at 5 etc etc, and it goes like that increasing an hour every 2-3 characters.
Yeah I know what you mean. I'm talking comp only, comp is just a vastly different mentality.
5-10 hours of comp play, or do you think QP/Arcade stats can have some overlap as well?

Is my sensitivity is too high for my grip?
Hello, I was wondering if my sensitivity is too high for my current mouse grip. Right now I'm using 1200 DPI and 8 sensitivity. Im pretty sure I use a claw grip and don't move my arm much, I mostly use my wrist. Its hard to hit shots even at close range but I don't know if it is too high or too low.
Thanks!you've got to play with the sensitivity and make it fit you. Everyone is different, so it's impossible to speak as to the problem.
Wrist aiming is fake news. 

I used to do it all the time, my aim got noticeably better after I stopped. Your sense doesn't sound too crazy (I used to play craaaaazy high sense, 5-in-game at 3200 DPI). Now I play 3-in-game at 1600 DPI. But you don't need to copy me, just find somthing that works for you. It'll take a while to used to it but the results are worth it. 
That is relatively high in the grand scheme of things. If you are struggling it might be worthwhile to make a change. Make sure that you have a large enough mouse pad. There are tons of guides out there on this topic, but [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UCK7iD0XQ5U) is a reasonable starting point and is Overwatch specific. Just watch the first 4-5 mins or so. I like how he basis his advice on size of mouse pad, arm movement, and how far you need to be able to turn without lifting the mouse excessively. 

The goal is to strike a balance between having an ability to make large movements like 180s, while having enough fine aim to be accurate. If your mouse movement is jittery, chances are your sensitivity is too high. If you struggle to make large movements, it's probably too low. 
8 ingame sens at 1200 DPI is really high by OW standards. Try lowering it to 6 or below and try it out for a few days. Your arms will hurt at first.
From my experience, 8 sensitivity might be too high. It also sounds like you have issues tracking characters on your screen, judging from your post.

There isn't really a hard and fast rule to sensitivity, just what is comfortable for you. If you feel that you are not hitting enough shots and you are experiencing difficulties aiming in game, try turning it down.

There are many youtube videos that go over sensitivity/mouse settings. I highly recommend you look some up and see if that helps!
That seams a little high for overwatch, my personal preference right now is 3000 dpi and 2 in game. Looking at your numbers you might be [pixel skipping](https://pyrolistical.github.io/overwatch-dpi-tool/). It's just a little thing but it helps.
What do you mean by stopped using your wrist?
Thanks, il watch the video!
From what I understand that calculator isn't accurate. Pixel skipping shouldn't be an issue unless you're playing at a really low DPI. 

To answer the OP's question, I would definitely recommend reducing your sensitivity and learning to primarily arm aim. This will take some time, but your wrists will thank you in the long run (and as a bonus your accuracy should improve, too). I would try halving your sensitivity to 4.
Lock your wrist, use your larger arm muscles which are far more precise  
Ok, il try!
In what way are large arm muscles more 'precise'?
I still use my wrist for flicks, but yeah 90% of your movement should be made using your arm. 
Larger muscles are capable of finer adjustments.

A lower sensitivity = a larger target area for your mouse (the area corresponding to the head hitbox is larger)

So finer adjustments across a larger area = more precision 
What the guys above me said, and it helps muscle memory
Assume the same sensitivity of course. Large muscles really are capable of finer adjustments? That goes against what I've found and I'd say common sense. Any source?
What I said below: source?
No, at high sensitivity large muscles are less capable of finer adjustments, but the other half of the equation: larger relative target size counteracts that.

the bottom line is that pro players in every game always use a lower sensitivity and a large mousepad 

Would you want the area on your pad that corresponds to a target's head to be a couple square millimetres or a couple square inches? Which is more forgiving and allows for higher accuracy?
I'm really not questioning your point about lower sensitivity, only the initial statement you made. 
Fair enough.

I might not be getting my thoughts across properly.

Perhaps it would be more accurate to say "when you are using your large muscle groups for movement, a lower sensitivity is more precise"

Or something along those lines

McCree advice?
Hello, I was looking for some advice on McCree.  My aim is solid due to playing lots of soldier. But I have a hard time getting kills off my stun and if they have any shields I can't seem to get around it for damage. 

How does he do proper damage and should I fan more or less and do I fan after a stun or just go for a quick headshot Go for headshot on baby Dva and tracer. Fan everyone else. Take the high ground so the tanks have to tilt their shields.

Basically fan to confirm kills, headshot tracer and baby dva to conserve ammo. You can kill most people with 2 headshots, but flash will wear off before the second one unless you have a really good flick.
If it is a tracer you stunned or a baby dva then hs. Otherwise fth is perfectly fine despite what people say (have seen enemy get tilted at mccree main using fth which was quite the lul) 

As for the shield, there isn't much other than smart aggressive positioning though that depends on your skill/rank. This is what you watch for and what people mean when they recommend watching pro streams. Iddqd and many others get amazing picks because they know how far up they can go without being punished and can de-aggro or gain aggro intelligently by their positioning
Soldier's floor is much higher than McCree's. Aiming with McCree is a bit different from Soldier since Soldier is more tracking movements and holding down LMB/burst fire. You can get punished hard if you don't hit your shots.

Don't rely on fan the hammer. Sometimes it's okay (like stun-FtH against Mei and Reaper), but you're better doing stun-headshot because it'll help you out in the long run with flicking to the head. I recommend just going for body shots and work your way up into headshots. Keep in mind that you can go headshot - bodyshot or vice versa to kill any 200 hp hero. Headshots are ideal, but landing your shots is more important especially since you only have 6 bullets (12 if you roll right after). Proper positioning helps you do more damage in the long run because if they can't get to you, but you can still shoot them, then you will be a menace. Preferable positioning is high ground because it makes it harder to reach you as well as giving you an overall view of the fights (plus it gives you a better vantage point to deadeye!).
I also graduated from Soldier to McCree. While they're both similar as being hit scan, they both play very differently in their aim. McCree operates better with a flick style of aim while Soldier shines more utilizing a tracking style of aim. Combining these two can make for good improvements on both toons, though.

Something that just takes practice to get right is landing those 1-2 headshots following a Flash Bang. That 1 second stun is enough window to get off 2 shots but you **cannot** hesitate. If you do, you lost too much time to get both shots off. Maybe you get one. This is where the flick style helps tremendously. You can flick to the head, pop a shot, stay there for the second, and get a kill and move on.

Regarding using Fan The Hammer after a Flash Bang, the general rule of thumb is, if you aren't in need of more bullets when you Flash someone and can reliably land all the shots on FtH without having to reposition/move then Fan away. A guaranteed kill is better than taking a chance to miss. Keep in mind though, that if you FtH you have to reload. You may be able to combat roll to get a free reload and if you do this then you'll definitely have to spend the full reload duration the next time you need to reload. So if there are other targets around then you'll want to be in practice of landing those head shots following a FB so that you still have 4 rounds left to fire without needing to reload. Once those 4 are expended you can reload normally or combat roll for 6 more. It's all about circumstance.

The other time that can be good to FtH is if you need to help tear down a shield. It's just quick burst damage that can aid in dropping a shield faster. If, for instance, a Winston splits you and your team and you need to drop his barrier quick because it may be faster than running through/around it then FtH (providing no one is firing on you that you need to respond to). Your FtH plus other damage it's taking will drop it fast to help you be able to aid your team.

Another time that FtH can help is against tanks, specifically if you cannot shoot their head. Again using Winston as an example, if he has his back turned to you and you can't shoot him in the head then FtH up his butt. Reload or combat roll and do it again. You'll drop him real quick.

Body shots will deal more damage bullet for bullet but FtH gets out more burst in a shorter time. So, for instance, you can FtH-Roll-FtH for more damage in the same amount of time than you can shoot 6 rounds. It uses two cooldowns and leaves you with a reload time but it can be worth it in the right situation. Ideally, you won't allow yourself to be in that situation so it's not something you'll probably have to or want to do very often. It's something you can do but isn't always the best option. There's a lot to consider before making yourself that vulnerable.
Just another bit of info here: Flash bang does damage so FB + HS will kill 150 hp heroes. 200 hp heroes will survive so fan the hammer is a safer bet. You can technically get two HS in the stun window, but it's not worth the risk if you're not phenomenal.
So roll reloads me?  Awesome!
Yeah, thanks for clearing that up, I'm not so good at explaining 
Two headshots is only necessary on 250 hp heroes like mei and reaper, headshot bodyshot kills 200 health targets.
Your ult also reloads you.

Mouse and Headset
Hi Everyone,

I'm looking for a change in my headset, and most importantly, a new mouse.

My hands are on the larger side - and I'm a pianist. I mention this because my hands have a natural curved position, and I need my the back of the mouse to be large enough to rest my palm on. The second part of this is that I need the mouse to be on the heavier side, as I tend to move too much on lighter mice, even at low sensitivity.

Currently, I'm using the Razer Naga, and I love it. I like my skill buttons being on the side of the mouse, and that is the main reason I'm using it. The size is good as well, but it's just too light, and as I climb in SR, it's causing me trouble because missing a shot or two in a fight actually counts.

Could anyone here recommend a mouse that might fit this profile? (Multiple side buttons, larger in size, heavy)

As for headsets, I'm using a 4 year old $30 TB headset that I bought for PS3, and I think it's time for an upgrade, however, after researching new ones, It looks like just about everything is recommended. I'd prefer wireless one, if they work. Any advice here would be greatly appreciated.Hyperx cloud 2 is the best headset for your money imo, it is the most comfortable thing that I've ever worn. Never once have my ears hurt etc. 

An unpopular opinion is the g600 mmo mouse. I have huge hands and it is extremely comfortable, it is however on the heavy side but I like that part about it to. I used my friends mouse (i forget the name something pro) and it felt unstable and and way to small for me. The g600 also has a m3 button which is the the most helpful thing when doing custom keybinds. I use it for genji dash, widow grapple etc any aiming skills/ults are much better on the mouse imo.
I use the Logitech G502 proteus spectrum. I've tried the Razer Naga and I really liked it, but didn't get it because it was too light.  The G502 is heavier, and also comes with removable/attachable weights that you can put in the mouse to adjust the weight.  I'd suggest going to best buy and trying it (or others) out with all the weights out and seeing how it feels to you. I love the mouse.  As far as headsets, everyone raves about the hyperx cloud 2's. They're probably great. I was gifted Astros a few years ago..they're nice, but tbh really heavy lol but the sound quality is amazing.  I think Astro just came out with a lower-budget version. I'll prob add them to my collection, and would recommend either those or the Hyperx Cloud 2's. Good luck :) 
Agree on the HyperX Cloud 2 headphones! My old headphones felt too tight after an extended gaming session, but with the HyperX Cloud 2, I haven't felt that discomfort yet.

[You can check this site for mice recommendations](http://www.rocketjumpninja.com/find-a-mouse/)

It'll all be preference which depends on your hand size, grip, and mouse pad size. Find one that you find comfortable to hold as well as one that is comfortable to use (normal buttons, mouse wheel, side buttons). For me, I went from the old logitech G5 to Steelseries Rival (this one was too big for my hand) to Logitech G403 Prodigy (just right for my hand).
logitech g900 g502 g403 g433-headset
I use Bose QC25 and I love them, people hear me clearly, it's over the ear so it doesn't hurt my ears, even after 6-7 hours of playing. On top of all this I can put noise canceling on and HEAR EVERYTHING.. Worth every penny, plus i use them with regular stuff too. just all around awesomeness. happy choosing. BTW i got these for about $250 about 2 years ago, so they should be much cheaper now.
I use the Logitech G403 Prodigy mouse and really like it - and it has an optional weight if you want it to feel heavier. My wireless headset is a G933 Artemis. The sound is great, though I leave the 7.1 surround simulation off when I play Overwatch as I prefer Atmos. My only complaint is that my ears get insanely hot - to the point that after a few hours it feels like I have a fever. Would be hard to recommend them to anyone that plays long sessions.
Isn't it frowned upon to use a mouse & keyboard when playing on console?
If you are getting into serious mouse comparisons, check out [Rocket Jump Ninja's YouTube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCGJaDZC7PChgd-XMwcbZkiw).  Dude knows his mice, and there are very detailed reviews for almost every one listed in this thread.

I would be remiss if I didn't also mention a large gaming mousepad.  I use a Razer Goliathus control and really like it.  SteelSeries makes a good one too!
Zowie EC2-A. 

Deathadder Chroma/Elite/2013 Edition.

If price isn't an issue, HyperX Cloud 2, otherwise I use a Logitech G430 and they are very good for the price!
probs g403, sensor wise you want 3366 or 3310 at least. id reccomend looking up rocket jump ninja. i cannot find a mouse i like at all but ive researched it extensively. the right side is very important because if the slope inwards is too harsh it hurts big hands. thumb grooves are a hit or miss. some mice like gpro are actuated super easily so you hit right click accidently often. sometimes lower profile works better for palming since it can help keep your wrist straight. material of mouse is important since some mice get sticky. you can look into the 2 new cm mice.
+1 to the G600. I palm my mouse a bit more than the average player, so when I was using "standard" gaming mice that were way too small for my hands, my accuracy was maybe 15% lower than it should've been because I was dragging my pinky and ring fingers on the mousepad. Using the right sized mouse can work miracles for your aim.
Hyperx Cloud 2 are amazing for the money.  Wireless headsets work until they inevitably don't.  That could be a year, it could be a month.
G502 is too heavy for FPS imo. I know OP said he wanted a heavier mouse but the G502 is a bit heavy for FPS.
I have used a lot of different mouses over the years of playing different fps games and I have to agree that my favorite mouse so far is Logitech's G502
G502 even has its' own subreddit. As for headsets go Seinheiser if you got da dough (they are super comfy like a loose sock draped on your head, no pressure at all)
Did not realize this was tagged as console - changed to PC.
Currently using the large Corsair MM300 pad, and I love it so far. I will check out the channel - thank you!
Exactly lol my fingers would just drag along like an ape. 
Glad you said that. I was thinking of coming back to this thread to emphasize trying it at Best Buy like I said. It is way heavier than "light" mouses (mice?) for sure. Even w all the weights out it's pretty heavy lol. But I play OW and am in masters with it so it's definitely doable. Only saying that to vouch for it in that you can be successful with it. I love it, and the buttons and feel are impeccable, but the weight is definitely on the heavy side for sure
To save you some time, I would recommend checking out this chart: http://www.rocketjumpninja.com/top-40/

It contains a list of recommended mice, which includes size and weight information.
What do you play? Maybe for tank/support and projectile heavier mice are fine but I main hitscan and I love light mice for tracking/flicks.

Genji vs Counters?
hey, ive been getting into Genji recently, gold 2399 sr with 40-50 hours in total. everytime that the enemy has a winston, I'd never contribute to the team since I can't dive or frag. For sym, I can't do much and I'd be better off switching. Zaryas ok If my team focuses, but for Mei and torbjorn I feel like I can't do much. it's like one pick on the enemy team can ruin my experience with genji, and with him being popular on dive v dive how would you deal with the counters?Winston isn't even scary anymore if your positioning is good. Wait for him to dive your backline and focus him down with your team - don't be afraid of him. Right click, dash, melee, spam right click in his face and together with your team he's finished.

Sym is always sketchy but she's no different to any other squishy target, you want to only be diving when you can confirm the kill quickly. LMB or RMB dash, 180 RMB, melee = dead.

With Torb is simply a case of finding an angle to attack, he's very quick to kill and even easier if Winston dives him with you. 
Mein here. Harassing your healers and separating them from your tanks is the kind of fun that makes us have giggle-fits, but when there are Genjis on our backline we'll drop everything to delete you. The front line's a fun place to visit but the backline is MY property and your shurikens are like a clanging dinner bell.

Ask your teammates to use this tendency to your advantage. On attack with a good Genji, your fellow DPS should be 100% certain that the one person who has no idea what they're doing is the Mei (because she's watching you), so have that guy walk up and delete her. Or dip in, get in one hit, then escape. Pretend you're Tracer. Harass, annoy, split them up and create chaos. Breaking their teamwork is every bit as good as getting a kill because it's a force multiplier for your teammates. 

My healers rely on me to peel you, Winston, D.Va and Lucio, but I can't do all of those things at the same time. If you're determined to crash the backline, show up with help. The more of you there are, the exponentially less-effective I become. 
* In my exeprience with genji, I barely meet winstons in open fights due to the nature of their roles, but when I do I usually keep my distance. You run faster than winston, and if he jumps on you, dash away. Also, theoretically, if you land your shots, you can duel a winston. Wouldn't recommend it though.

* For your level, I doubt the zaryas can 1v1 you, assuming she's not burning brighter than the sun. Besides, you shouldn't be engaging their zarya anyway. Go after their support. If they get bubbled, back off, get healed, re engage. 

* For sym and mei, same logic with winston. Keep your distance, and dash away if things gets shaky. If you see them engaging the enemy team, go after the supports. If they come back, back off and return to your team. 

Your job is to harass, and go in for the kill once you have the opportunity. Don't have to sacrifice yourself for a kill, or nothing at all. Also, the ult charge you get off of sym balls is ridiculous, if the enemy team gets hit by it. Remember, a sym and even a mei can't do work if their healers are dead or preoccupied. Let your team handle them, while you kill off their healers.

* For torbjorn, honestly, he shuts down your operating area by a lot. Either have your team to swap to counter him, deny him turret spots, or simply just avoid areas where the turret covers(or you could hunt him down yourself). Then again, it might be more trouble than it's worth(avoiding areas, that is), so sometimes you just have to switch.
I have about the same amount of Genji experience as you at platinum at 60ish hours. 

Winstons aren't usually a problem for me alone. Add Winston+torb/sym/mei and I'll switch. Heck I'd switch against sym/torb on defense. They make your job impossible without impeccable healing. Hanzo/soldier are much better for dealing with torb/sym. 

Anyway, against a Winston you need to track his jump pack cooldown. If you haven't seen him use it, don't use dash. Only use dash once you see him use jump pack, otherwise he can delete you. 

I'll dive winston if he's half hp. That's an easy duel. Any higher and he's too dangerous. 
this could help me a lot thanks!!
Oh yeah, make sure to waste dash as soon as winston sees you.

I'm having a very hard time in comp this season
I'll start out by saying I just began playing OW in June and I'm new to competitive shooter type games. They normally don't appeal to me. The only reason I tried OW is that my husband said it was more of a team-based game where I could support and tank main and be a vital part of the team. 

QP is garbage for tanks and supports, but I've been using it to build up my skills and get good enough to go into comp. I only played a for 12 hours in s5; I placed high silver and came very close to climbing into gold. I have been told by friends that if I want to play with people who will take anything seriously, I need to leave QP and start playing comp a lot more. I sucked it up and began to do so these past few days. 

This season, I have again placed high silver to begin with. I lost 8 of my 10 placement matches. I've lost 13 of the 18 games I've played since. Most of these losses are completely down to the group not grouping up or playing like a team. I feel like I don't perform terribly, and my SR reflects that; 13 losses compared to 5 wins could pulverize SR, but mine is down by less than 100. I gain more SR when I win than I lose when we're defeated. 

I don't know what happened this season but silver feels like hell. Last season I only played 11 hours but people were generally on comms, listened to call outs, and were willing to at least somewhat support a team comp and/or swap when we needed it. This season it's like playing with a bunch of rabid animals. Nobody groups. Nobody speaks unless it's to flame or be toxic. I've played 28 games counting the placements and only two games have had people on comms. There seems to be no purpose to playing a support or a tank because there's no group to protect. My tank mains are Rein/Orisa/Monkey and my healer mains are Zen/Mercy. Zen stands the most chance at survival but I'm reduced to peeking around corners doing charged shots at squishies, because if I can be seen, I just die. 

I know I'm not the best player, but I truly don't understand how I'm supposed to climb as a support and tank main when my teammates won't act like a team. I can't heal or tank hard enough to outdo 2-4 people just not listening and not caring and constantly overextending, trickling, and dying. I've seen plenty of other healers get sassy and swap to DPS when people do this to them, but I don't want to play a DPS. 

What can I do? At this point, I have better chances of getting a good team willing to work together in QP than I do in comp. I'm feeling very hopeless about continuing with this game at all.I think /u/Olly0206 has some good advice regarding the environment of QP and some of the lower ranks. I'm going to touch on some introspection you can do now and give some tips for what you can do in game. Sorry it got so long. I think the first couple paragraphs are probably most relevant to you.

I think you need to take a step back for a moment. Take a breather. Remind yourself that the actions of others are beyond your control. Don't worry about your teammates. You'll always have games with players who don't care about winning or teamwork or anything other than instalocking their favorite hero. Instead, you should focus on yourself and what you can do in that moment. 

And for your last bit of introspection, ask yourself, do you enjoy playing Overwatch? What makes this game fun for you? Do you see a light at the end of the tunnel? It's true the quality of games will improve as you climb and the best way to climb is to focus on improving yourself. You can also get that same effect right now by finding a team to play with.

___

Here's some specific gameplay advice for your situation:

Ask your team nicely in chat to get in comms. Work with anyone that does. You can work together and move together and you'll have at least some semblance of team play. Even if it's only 1 player, it's better than nothing and you won't feel so alone in matchmaking. You can even make a friend if your lucky.

In silver, it can be really hard to survive as a tank. Rein, Orisa, and Winston are all great anchor tanks that you will see one of in every game at high level. Teams that play around these tanks are ridiculously strong. Ignoring the team component, they each have a pretty large weakness and that is their lack of survivability. If you want to play one of these tanks (except maybe Winston), then you need a competent healer to back you up. If you don't have a good healer (as in someone who is alive long enough to heal people), then you should avoid Orisa and Rein. Winston is mobile, so he can grab health packs if they're needed. The key with him will be to not overcommit and to not waste your bubbles or jumps.

Zen is a great healer to climb on. He's got a fair amount of damage, his healing is passive, he's mostly shields, and he has discord. You can carry pretty well with him if you take the time to aim his orbs and land your shots. His ult can be used to push in. His discord provides a natural target for your team to focus. Make sure to yell excitedly in comms who the discord is on (you can probably get to plat simply by yelling your discord targets into the mike). Just be careful of Sombra. Her EMP can strip you of your shield and then you're quick clean up for her. Tracers can be trouble, but probably not until you get really high in the ladder.

__

That's it for specifics. I can give some general advice for silver-diamond players though.

Think of Overwatch as having two components: mechanical skill and meta-knowledge/game sense. Bronze players tend to be weak in both. Masters players tend to be strong in both. Generally, mechanical skill plateaus in low gold and players improve by improving their meta-knowledge and game sense. There's not usually a huge difference between a Tracer's ability to track a target between a gold and a diamond player. The difference is the diamond player knows when to commit, who to prioritize, and where to fight. Mechanical skill is something you can practice in QP while the other skills can really only be worked on in comp.

* Focus on your positioning.
 * Most players position poorly in low ranks. They don't stand where they should. That usually means on high ground or peeking corners. Instead, they're standing in places where they're either exposed or can't see their targets. This applies more to DPS though since tanks are supposed to create space and healers are supposed to hang back. 
 * As a support, you want your team in front of you and your rear clear. You should be behind cover and safe from ranged attacks from the enemy. Be wary of their flankers as that's your greatest threat.
 * Good positioning enables you to do more. It lets you aim better. It lets you heal more. It lets you tank more. I cannot stress enough how powerful good positioning is. Good positioning alone can get you into platinum.

* Practice good target prioritization
 * As a tank, you want to bully out the other tank and clear a path for your team.
 * As Winston, you want to dive on the enemy backline and take out their healers. Ideally, you want to drop on them from above and save your jump for escape.
 * As a healer, you always want to prioritize your fellow healer first, then tanks _to an extent_, and then your DPS. You don't need to top off your tanks when your DPS are hurting. Try to keep your tanks at mid-health and then reprioritize to healing DPS. You want everyone to have at least 200 HP at any moment. Always shift priority to people that are immediately under pressure.
 * As Mercy, you should know how to tempo rez (especially with the PTR changes imminent) and who are your priorities. Lucio used his ult and died? Leave him. Zarya died with Ult? Probably want to rez that. 6v6 and you trade 2 for 1? Rez that into a 6v4.
 * As Zen, you want to call out your discord. Focus anyone that's exposed and vulnerable. Try to help your flanker if you have one (prioritize his target). Otherwise go for their anchor tank. They can't defend/push without their anchor.

* Don't overcommit to a fight
 * Don't use all 6 of your ults to win a fight (unless it's the last fight).
 * Don't spend ults in a fight that's already lost
 * Don't spend ults in a fight that's already won
 * Back off from a fight that's lost

* Don't stagger.
 * If you do lose a fight, run back and regroup
 * If escape is unlikely, stop healing yourself and kill yourself

* Don't feed enemy ults
 * Don't take unnecessary damage
 * Don't heal yourself if you're going to die
 * Kill yourself to avoid giving the enemy ult

* Die less
 * Play more passively
 * Players in low ranks tend to take more risks than they can afford. This results in them spending a lot of the match dead. It's better for a player to at least be alive and marginally contributing than a walking ult battery on a 10 second timer.
 * Learn when to disengage
 * Check your corners
 * Position well
Well, the odds of having a better team in QP are really more of the odds of having a worse enemy team to play against. QP often times comes down to which team has the best individuals who carry a team. Comp can sometimes, especially in lower ranks, really be about who has the best synergy out of the instalocks.

I would highly recommend, especially if you're a support/tank main, to find a group of people to play with. DPS players are a dime a dozen. Easy to find and everywhere. Speaking as a DPS player myself, it's a breath of fresh air to find someone who *wants* to play healer or tank.

Even if you can only find one or two other people to group with, your odds of having better synergy will be much better in comp than solo queuing. Many support/tank mains I've talked to have mentioned they found it easier to win and rank up with at least 1 other partner.

You can find groups in a variety of discord channels. OWU has one linked on the right bar. Some OW Youtube channels have discords, like Your Overwatch, for instance. /r/overwatchlft and /r/overwatchlfg are also decent places to find other players.
I am sorry to hear that you are struggling. I was in your shoes last season. I am a support main who will flex to tanks. My winrate was an abysmal 35% for most of season 5, yet my personal statistics were steadily improving and I felt like I was performing reasonably well. I managed to bump it up to the low 40s by the end of the season, but my MMR was convinced nothing had changed, and my SR was just tanking.

After watching some of my games and reading about the correlations between stats and SR, about two weeks before season end I made a conscientious effort to focus on two statistics: upping my accuracy by working on my mechanical skills (with drills in the training range and gaining an addiction to Death Match) and lowering my deaths in game. 

My season six placement matches were a disaster. I went 2 to 8. The teams made for some of the worst games I have ever played. And I placed really really low, like well over 400 points below my season end low. I was shocked that it was that dire.

I didn't think it would be too difficult to regain my previous rank if I was persistent, but I still wasn't expecting great winrates, considering how bad the placement games had been and how rough the previous season was. But this season has been completely different.

I have won 72% of my matches since placements, winning 21 of 29 games. Even including placements I have a 60% winrate. Some of it is from losing so much SR that I am clearly fighting against people not at my actual skill level, sure, but I am still getting teams where I have gold elims with Mercy because I am just killing divers and flankers who are pressuring me and our DPS can't confirm kills, or we somehow pull off a 4 dps 2 support full hold on Hollywood. Stupid shit like that. 

I know my winrate will stabilise eventually to something more reasonable, but changing my focus from my teammates to myself has helped my outlook so much.

The games don't feel any more consistent, but -I- sure do. I feel it. I feel the impact that nearly halving my high death count has had. I feel the impact that upping my global accuracy by 15% has had. I feel the impact that learning how to duel in DM has had. I feel the team stabilising effects of a more conservative playstyle on my part, of the ability to follow up if my DPS is struggling, and how much more presence I have if I am not constantly running back from spawn.

The most important point is that over the last month I am having more fun in Overwatch than I have had in maybe six months. I do enjoy competitive, but I am going out of my way to find other things to do that I find fun as well. Mystery Heroes, Team Death Match as Zen, Death Match as Sombra, practicing DPS anywhere but competitive. Drills that help me learn timing and travel distance of projectiles. Going on the PTR to check out the new map. Anything that feels fresh and fun and helps me keep that feeling of forward momentum, which is what made me fall in love with Overwatch in the first place.

I know you will find a way to move forward as well, and I wish you the best of luck.


Here is the real way to climb, just find your main, flex if needed, PRACTICE! If your team needs a tank but you don't know any tanks DON'T SWITCH! Better of playing what your best at
> Back off from a fight that's lost

>If you do lose a fight, run back and regroup

>If escape is unlikely, stop healing yourself and kill yourself

>Don't heal yourself if you're going to die

>Kill yourself to avoid giving the enemy ult


I'll take 'Things that Don't Happen in Plat' for 200 Alex.
> Practice good target prioritization

Since I main Sombra. Does that include calling out who I hack as well as harassing their tanks and healers ( I don't want to go toe to toe against Sym the Microwave Saleswoman)? Since I find myself more and more harassing tanks and picking off healers.

Oh yeah. Call out your hacked targets. You want the team to focus them down as quickly as possible while they're vulnerable. Try to hack D.Va or tanks if it's early in the fight and you're near the front. Otherwise do your flank assassination. I don't really play Sombra though, so take the actual priorities with a grain of salt.

Please HELP your supports guys!
I just had by far the worst experience on Overwatch since I started at the beginning of season 1.

An simple Ranked game, went solo, had a group of 3 on my team, they didn't joined voice chat.

I picked Junkrat, but changed to Zenyatta in order to help more the team with the heals. The other two guys on solo went Reinhardt and Ana.

The trio went Reaper, Widow and Zarya. Nothing bad since was an defense on Hollywood, it could work. They weren't on voice, but where tipping.

30 seconds into the game, there was an Tracer, that Tracer was AWESOME, man she was flanking me and Ana, but we didn't stand a chance, we where healing each other trying to kill her, but there was no way.

So, there was me and ana asking for help with the tracer, we where dying nonstop, being spawn camped by a single tracer, the Reinhardt helped us to get on the point again and was trying to protect us.

But the trio? Didn't even helped ONCE.

Enemy team got point A, got point B in a blink since Tracer was eating us (Sups).

This made Ana quit the game, pissed of.

Was the worst loss I had on my life, not because that part, but what came after.

I had 3 guys complaining about my bad gaming, one showing his gold kills on Widow (I was silver kills and damage on Zen, so...0

_______

Please, if you have Sups asking for help, DO HELP them!

Is better to have 1 player focused on protecting the back line than having no back line at all!

______

I ended the game with 5 golds (I picked Junkrat since there was no way for me to do anything with a support for those 3), only me and the trio vs 6, since the Reinhardt couldn't stand that as well.

The best part? The 3 reported me and said that would ask for friends to report as well. Isn't this an great way to end the night?Sorry to hear. But this will happen to you even in mid diamond range. Most people do not help their healers.

Only things you can do are: Help yourself and/or ask for help with detailed positioning and who attacks you.
This is a rant post and shouldn't be posted here. If you generally want to know how to deal with a competent flanking Tracer or diving Genji doing their job, then ask that. Plenty of really good posts and guides on here teaching exactly that. Toughen up and realise that unless you're queuing up with a friend in duo or friends in a group, you can't rely on random teammates to support you. I'm a support main, and I get what you mean for sure, but a PSA announcement on here serves no purpose. Between you and Ana with sleep & discords you should have been able to deal with the Tracer. Practice self-preservation and it will help with all those hundreds of games you'll play with little to no peeling support. 
Sorry to hear storys.. And yes people have to somewhat help healers. BUT in general.. I have to say one thing.. This is always such an excuse for healers for why they died. Many times people just die because of misspositioning. And the most healers have some sort of way to protect themself. However.. Stuff like being actually maybe in the MIDDLE of a fight and noone would attack the guy that hunts you is something that pisses me off. However, i recommend things like.. Getti g line of sight more often. I for example fking hate if i litellary have to walk infront if healers so they heal me.. Because if i say something, some get pissd off.. And im like.. Dude, watch around there is a big ass cross that means "need heal" which you just CANT miss.

Just sayin.  Its easy to say it, but there are things where both parties can do a small thing to improve the overall teamplay.. Even if you feel like leading a deaf/blind ant. 
Sorry to say yes you should get peels. But your telling me 2 of the best equiped supports to deal with tracer and make her scat or insta die couldnt handle one tracer?

You got BADLY outplayed both supports CAN somewhat deal with her but she should win 1v1.

But to get shreded together? Im sorry this is going to sound so harsh but im blunt.

You need to improve. Badly. Tracers biggest weakness is burst damage which you have. Crowd control which ana has. And most of all staying in a fight to long trying to kill a target being pocketed.

If you plan to play support get ready. Unless tracer sneaks up and one clips you during a VERY EXTREMLY heated battle that you forgot to check your surroundings, you WILL be expected to close that fight out QUICKLY or it will mean death. One shot with discord will make her recall or face death at a tickle of anything. 

This WONT get easier. They WILL come for you if you cant fend them off to SOME degree. 

You shouldnt have been called a thrower BUT with that said, you got outplayed BIGTIME. Those are the 2 scariest supports to have a drawn out skirmish with. 

You need to improve that if your going to play such a immobile support.
To be fair, having the entire team constantly try to deal with a good, defensive playing tracer on the backline can be a bad thing. Usually you want to have one dps like mccree or roadhog watch their supports yeah, but most of the time supports also have to learn to defend themselves and each other if you want to win more games. If I play support and I constantly get harassed by a good flanker, I usually just switch to lucio and defend our other healer. Don't forget that needing 2 dps to fall back and help supports means their supports also get a lot of breathing room. It's all about balance of course, but usually winning isn't as simple as: just protect your supports.

That's just a bad group, you're not preventing that behavior with the post here, the people here aren't the ones doing that.
It's just a crapshoot. One game I was playing Ana on Anubis attack and there was a Tracer waiting behind the choke for me every time we pushed. I would call her out every time and my team would ignore me. Then one of them told me to play Mercy instead since "she needs less babysitting." 

??????
I would've just swap to Lucio. Lucio is the best for helping out other supports with a flanker, if you know how to shoot with him of course.
Yes, people should help their supports, but you should focus on what you could have done yourself. If you keep getting killed by a Tracer, Zenyatta probably wasn't the right pick. Did you consider going Lucio or Mercy to have some extra mobility? Did you consider going an extra tank or DPS to protect your Ana?
Nothing is more useless than a healer that is dead all the time. If both healers are not able to stay alive (the reason doesn't really matter) one of them should make a switch. Useful picks can be Sombra, Soldier, Tracer, Roadhog, because they don't rely on healing themself and can be used to counter flankers.
The real problem here: None of your characters had movement abilities... in a game where movement abilities are OP.
How were you asking for help if they weren't in chat?
Zen/Ana is the worst support combo in the game imo. 

Both have zero mobility and limited options positionally. You guys probably didn't lose the fight off of the lack of a peel, it's just because you suck.

Suppose if Soldier came back and chased her off: 

If Tracer can occupy 3 players attention, then she's done her job perfectly. The enemy team can walk in 3 v 5 and win easily because all of your healing and half your DPS is occupied. 

The fact that you keep losing 1 v 2 versus Tracer means she's just simply outplayed you and Ana who have huge DPS capabilities versus a Tracer. 

One of you needed to swap to Lucio and peel the Tracer. 

Honestly, you probably shouldn't have been supporting. You shoulda just DPSed because you clearly can't play support that strongly. 
...and now you immortalized that experience in a post on reddit, which makes you feel bad for longer than if you hadn't. 
When I play mercy and I'm being harassed I always call out "if nobody kills this tracer I'm going to stop healing and do it myself", usually they come help after that. 
> But this will happen to you even in mid diamond range. Most people do not help their healers.

So true, the only things you can do are staying closer to your team (to make it easier for them to help you out) or fight back. 

From my experience the Zen vs Tracer matchup isn't too bad and you actually stand a decent chance (Genji on the other hand tho.....). If you fight her in a open space you are at a severe disadvantage, but if you kite her around pillars and corners it is a lot better because that way she has less room to dodge your shots.

If all else fails you can also swap to Lucio (or Mercy if you have a Pharah or Widow) to make it easier to survive. 


Thanks <3

I've saw things like this from gold to diamond (Never saw on Bronze/Silver, I wish I was there till these days, man that was fun, no one though that was better than others and was always an group effort trying to win, even being bad at the game)
> Toughen up

Losing video games builds character.
Seconded on the rant post. Also, OP should have either switched to Lucio or seen if someone else would to help protect the back line from tracer. 
I know that, and I'm sorry, I was just on the limit of frustration.

Season 5 gave me a lot of experience on being a support vs flankers and divers, I've learned a lot and my aiming and self awareness improved a lot.

But there is always someone that will crush you, I had no chance on that game, and having a group of 3 players just playing around doing nothing in order to win made me super frustrated.

I wasn't the only one since the Ana just left the game after a while.

I'll avoid posts like this one on the future, but is interesting to see how many people got interest on this post, I got a lot of good words that made me excited to play OW again today. So in a way, this post helped me to keep playing and hope for a better day
Thanks for your words <3

I really learned a lot of positioning and prediction on season 5, my "reflexes" improved so much that I feel that I'm playing as fast as I played when I was an young kid on the old playstation.

I have recorded the match and tried to figure an way to win that fight against the tracer, but man, that player was god! I don't have any idea of how a player like that is on Platinum, or he is an smurf or he trow games, because it makes no sense at all!

The only way I would be safe from the tracer would be on the air with an Pharah, but it would require help from an team mate as well (I had 3 that wouldn't help at all)

I know that most times I feel like my DPS isn't killing probably isn't his fault, probably I can keep the tanks alive for more time and the talks will be able to provide more space for the DPS players.
I agree with you. Tbh I think Zen vs Tracer is just skill dependant and can easily be equal or favour Zen if you are good. Zen AND Ana vs Tracer should be an easy kill. Zen's Harmony orb and Ana's Bio nade for sustain should mean you're able to delay Tracer killing you for a very long time
IMO Lucio is much more equipped to deal with Tracer, as he can shred her super quick and has insane mobility.
Well, I was extremely out played yesterday, no doubt about that.

I never had an Tracer like that coming at me on my entire experience with OverWatch. Tbh Tracers don't even bother me, since usually I can just flick an discord and head shot making then retreat. 

My fear is the Genjis, those ones make me work hard and usually my best way is keeping my ear ready for his flanks and go for my team.

I'll of course keep improving and one day I'll be able to face a player like that, but man, that was an Smurf, there is no other explanation for such skill on a platinum game. The other healer just left the game with such frustration.

At least, the tracer complimented me for my hard work in the end of the game, I killed her sometimes, but the simple fact that the Tracer keeping around me bugging me made me unable to help the team and with just that she allowed her entire team to get an 3-0
A good rule of thumb is to wait and see if they give you a free pick. Genji/Tracer/Winston/DVa. Often they will jump in on their own, and they will not be able to take on 2 supports and a DPS. 
True, you're right Sambalbai.

And I got used to deal with the flankers by myself, season 5 made my SR go from an stable 3,2k (7 months on this rank) to 2,2k (beggining of dive meta) and now 2,7k (end of season 5).

The fact that playing Lúcio / Zenyatta on the back having to deal with Winstons + Genjis every game going right to me as soon as my winston Jumped made me learn a LOT on how to protect myself.

But truth be told, sometimes no matter how much you work, there will be an player that will crush you entirely! I had no chance against that player and I hope to never see he against me again. The feeling was that an super smurf was just playing around with me. Like he was an big Tiger and I was just an small Rat trying to survive LOL.

But making this post, even being an Rant made me receive some good words from nice people and I'll play OW happy again today. There will be bad team mates, but for sure I'll find some awesome ones on my way to.
Well, yes. I hope that the ones who play doing so much bad things spend some time watching youtube videos or on the reddit to improve

I hope my games today bring more shine for my day
Well, exactly. There is so many support players that are just playing other roles because this simple fact that the role will end being dropped out.

I will end buying an new account just to play DPS and Tank without people bothering me. Because in the end what I want is to have fun.

(Ps. the need for a new account is that I get to much hate for playing DPS with more than 200 hours of supporting)
He is my most played, and for a moment I tried, but was worst than Zen against that player.

There will be games where we just have no chance I guess. I'll keep improving my game and I hope that the next tracer that crush me like that is at least twice as good as this one XD
As a Tracer main, a good zenyatta is absolutely a nightmare to deal with. If him and an ana couldnt survive against ONE player, hes orobably just being carried most games
Truth being told here.

I  was trying to find a way to win, as I always do. But sadly the Ana player left the game at an point, so the chances that where super low went to zero XD

I tried to go Lúcio but it was worst against that player and I would go DPS to stay just with the Ana (Probably McCree or Junkrat, the easiest for me to deal with an tracer). But I didn't had enough time to do that
Well, Lúcio didn't worked as well.

After the Ana left I tried Mercy to solo heal, didn't worked.

If Ana had stayed on the game, I would put McCree / Junkrat and stay close to ana just to Counter that player and allow space to heal the team...
They weren't on the voice chat, but they had used the text chat in the beginning asking for sups in order to play with 2 dps and a d.va on their group..

Each time I or ana died, we used text chat asking for one of them help focusing the Tracer.

For example, if widow had change for an McCree, she would keep doing her job and Tracer would stand no chance.

Or if Ana had staid in the game, we could had an better chance on other point, or maybe if one of us went DPS as well, making an 3-2-1 comp.
Well, hard to see your words...

Support is the role I'm forced to play even against my will, I have more than 200 hours on support because no one fucking play support...

About tracer, she isn't a hard hero to deal usually, I can deal with an single tracer as Zenyatta or Lúcio (the to main heroes I play) but that one yesterday was just to good.

I had played in games with 700 more SR than the ones I was playing yesterday and I never saw an player so good.

Was an case of Out-Playing and I know that against that player I couldn't deal NOTHING. (I tried Lúcio for sometime as well, but was being worst).

If the Ana player haven't left the game, I would keep trying to find an way to deal with the situation and find a way to win the game. But after the ana left the game at the moment the first point of Hollywood was taken there was nothing I could do by myself in order to win the game.

I went for an SoloQ game, so people just do what they want and hope to the best. I could not count on the 3 players from that group. The Reinhardt player was trying to protect us, but if he did that, the other 3 would just die without the shield.

I'll just keep improving my game and I know that with time the Tracer will need to be way better in order to crush me like that :)
Naa, tbh I was needing to take this out of my chest. And Some people here said some good stuff and I'm ready to play again and get some good and bad matches today :D
> From my experience the Zen vs Tracer matchup isn't too bad and you actually stand a decent chance (Genji on the other hand tho.....). 

This is usually the case for me as well, but my MMR is around 2,7k these days and I know when I stand no chance, man was an 2v1 (Ana+Zen vs Tracer) and we just kept dying or at max stalling a bit, but even if we just stalled vs her, we wouldn't be healing the team after all...
At some point I tried Lúcio, and I'm not bad at him, he is my most played hero (stopped because got boring do the same every day).

But there was no way to kill that tracer man, that tracer was an smurf for sure and she did the best job on staling the enemy supports I ever saw on my life!

(After the Ana left, I tried mercy as well for a while, but the frustration got so big that I just went junkrat and killed and contested the point as much as I could until the game ended 3-0 for them)
yeah.. sometimes you meet really good people.. and there is really not much you can do in some games.. maybe a smurf.. who knows? pharah's are the coolest shit for mercy, and i really try to always be an escape for her. i am really happy if the mercy update comes out. i recently picked mercy more up.. as some sort of "training" already :P 
a friend of me, does not understand why she gets that huge change.. meanwhile she is litellary the one that flames around if she dies. and mercy, is that heroe that has probably the hardest time in protecting herself if she has no friends where she can fly all over the place. and with the new update. I am SO hyped for her ult which makes her nearly untouchable for many heroes. And the new GA.
positioning is like.. the most important thing in this game. and i always "predict" people based on basics. and then you are in damn master and people do wierd shet and stay all over the place sometimes.. HF as mercy. haha

you know whats always a good thing to keep in mind.. YOU know throu playing her.. or any other heroe/role. how it IS.. keep on improving and be a good teammate with that knowledge. some people never play anything else besides 4 heroes and think they know shit. ;) good luck.
Lúcio for sure is the best one to deal with Genji, Tracer and Winston. Is just fun to see flankers trying to take you out.

Usually I played him and even if I couldn't kill the enemy, I would still provide auras and they won't kill me.

In a point I tried Lúcio, but I was still no mach for that player.
> A good rule of thumb is to wait and see if they give you a free pick. Genji/Tracer/Winston/DVa. Often they will jump in on their own, and they will not be able to take on 2 supports and a DPS.

This would be an golden rule for every match, with friends I can do this, I put my self on an "danger" zone on purpose, being far behind my team, just to bait an Dive from a Winston for example, and i'll always have an player on my group ready to take advantage on that.

Is easier to pick an Diver while being in a full formation than diving the enemy as well and hopping for the best
Sure, but not everyone is a good Zenyatta and that's not a bad thing. Switching might have improved the game a lot. 
I don't think you need to kill the Tracer as Lucio. You need to boop her away and get your Ana out of there. 
Honestly dealing with Tracers is like an everyday thing for me on Zenyatta, 90% of the times I don't even have a hard time scaring her.

An simple Discord + Head Shot make the Tracer retreat for a while and allow me to play the game well.

But there is those players that just are to good, this one was the best one I ever faced on my entire year of playing this game. Honestly if he is not an Smurf he needs to be trowing to much games to be on this rank (plat).

I tried to play Lúcio for a while, but was being harder to deal with her. So I went back to Zenyatta (At least I was discording and dealing more damage with the help of the Ana).

But at the point where Ana just Left the game from pure frustration I was hopeless.

I tried Mercy in order to keep close to the team and still try to get a win, but was an 5x6 and we just had no chance.

So at a point I went Junkrat, said to the team that I was to frustrated to keep on support and I would do something with the players that where destroying me.

On Junkrat I did pretty well, I stalled the time as much as I could, but no one wanted to go Support, one more player left and we end the game with 3-0.

I think I got so frustrated since the Trio played like was an QP without caring about nothing and I probably take Ranked a bit to serious.

If the Ana haven't left the game, I'm sure that I would end up finding an way with her to deal with that situation and at least end the game with an not so shameful defeat. But bad games happen and I hope my games today to be a bit better
Yes, but the player was just to good for us.

With Zenyatta, I was at least dealing some damage and making her run for a while or killing each now and then allowing us to have some time to help the team.

If Ana haven't left the game, I'm sure that I would find a way to deal with the tracer, probably goind McCree or Junkrat and staying close to the Ana, I would not be healing, but at least Ana would be.

I'll try to be fast if this happens again. Instead of trying to do better against an hard enemy, I'll just chance and go for a counter.

(I hope that if I change my Zen for an Junkrat in order to stop the dive this don't make my team think I'm trowing and just stop to work XD)

SR bug?
So this is a story from season 5 (i was too lazy to write about it right when it happened hah).  I was playing competitive and it got into a match where our team SR was about 3500. And our enemies' SR was definetly more than 200 SR lower than ours (something like 3200). The map was Nepal and we actually threw so hard that we lost 0-3. Now, I expected to lose a ton of SR, BUT (sit down) I only lost 2 SR.. TWO. Has this ever happened to someone else? Is my karma that positive or what? If anyone has any insight on this, I welcome any feedback. And oh, thanks Blizz love ya ♥ Your MMR is significantly higher than the overall match MMR.
This is pretty normal. The matchmaker couldn't find an equal team to match your team against so it provided the closest match. More than likely because your MMR was above the match, and probably also due to underdog status (or lack of), the system knows that you belong where you are and that one fluke match doesn't mean you should lose 50 SR and start working your way down to a lower rank that you don't belong at. Now, if you continued that trend and kept throwing matches and/or performing poorly (and you kept having uneven matches like that) then you'd start seeing that -2 SR turning into -10 and -20 and so forth until you leveled off at where the system decided you belonged.

**Disclaimer, numbers used are made up for illustrative purposes and are not meant to be representative of actual SR lost or gained.**
koth is bo3 now 
OP said this was from last season when it was still out of 5.
woops

A few questions about d.va from a new player
Hey! So I've had Overwatch for about a week and I can already say that d.va is one of my favorite heroes. I really enjoy playing her, however I have a lot of questions about how to utilize her correctly. It's a long list, and for that I do apologize. 
  
a) As d.va, how do I manage the usage of my defense matrix in an effective way? For example, what happens to me a lot is that I never know what type of projectiles I should prioritize blocking with the matrix. What ends up happening is that when someone like Pharrah, for example, is ulting and I NEED to use my shield to block her projectiles, I don't have it because I wasted it on other things.   
  
b) As d.va, how do I counter heroes who don't shoot things that I can block? More specifically, Zarya and Winston are the two heroes that annoy me the most because I can't block their beams with my defense matrix, yet they do damage to my team and I never know how to protect my team against them.
  
c) Is it my job as d.va to take care of flankers? Usually when there's a Tracer, Reaper or a Genji flanking I never know what do. Should I chase them down or do other heroes get this job done better than d.va?  
  
d) As d.va, I shouldn't solo dive because she doesn't do that much damage and it's better to stay and help support and DPS heroes, but are there situations when I should? Usually if there's a widow on the high ground or any other snipers I usually fly in their faces and try to kill them, is this the correct thing to do?    
  
e) When should I use my shift? Usually I end up using it when I don't need to, and then when I actually need to, like if I get hooked by a Roadhog out of the map, I don't have it.  
  
Thanks so much! :)a) This question is really situational. I find that leaving around half your defense matrix charge for when you really need it (as in you'll die if you don't use it) is the best. But, this is a very general question and there are lots of situations it is better to use the defense matrix than not.

b) It varies depending on where your team is relative to the enemy. If the enemy is in your backline, shoot them with your guns. If they're not, run away. You have no chance against them.

c) Use your defense matrix against flankers. If they can't shoot anything, their useless and simply wasting their time.

d) A solo Widow is great to dive as she has difficulty killing you and can't threaten your team if your shooting her. Generally though, avoid solo dives.

e) The best use for it is an escape mechanism. If the enemy team gets you out of position, it is your only way to get back to your team as defense matrix simply won't last long enough to keep you safe and they can usually just go around it.
This doesn't answer any of your questions, but I just wanted to let you know that D.Va will be getting a nerf pretty soon which will affect her playstyle. You can check it out now on the PTR if you want to.
a) you'll need to keep track of their ults. If they haven't used it in the last team fight, they'll probably have it soon.  Try to keep a lot of your DM available, you don't need to block everything to be effective. 

b) two options. If you're taking more damage than your healers can keep up with, you can boost away and find cover. If it's a closer fight, you can shoot them in the neck/head, they don't want to take an unfavorable fight with you. Try not to let Zarya to shoot you too much, Dva is an ult battery for her.

c) part of being a good dva is balancing helping the front line and helping your back line. Boosters make you mobile so help out where you think you're most needed and you can switch often. Chasing them might be a bad use of time if it puts you out of position or you can't confirm the kill quickly. 

d) this is judgement based. A lot of your job is to analyze what your team needs help with most (that you can deal with) and help them. An uncontested widow on high ground *can* be a problem if she has good sight lines and being effective against your team. Sometimes they're not effective. It depends if your team is having trouble dealing with her or not, help out where you think you'll be most effective.

Remember Widow headshots on the Dva mech do up to 300 damage. Soldier is a lot easier to kill when his healing field is on cooldown. Hanzo scatter can do a nearly instant 450 damage and headshots do 250 damage. 

e) recognize when there are heroes like roadhog/lucio/pharah/orisa and pits nearby. Try to save your boosters if you're in danger of being booped into a pit, or if you want/need to use them, try to position yourself where you're not in danger of being dumped into a pit.  
Most things are already pointed out.. But the main thing about her (which is also sok cool). She can do somewhat any tank-like job depending on situation. She can bully people. In general pick up kills(only if it is a good situation) she can zone. Protect. And piss off soo many people.
Be aware of what could be better at what point.
Boop someone away from supports. Make a little 180to DM for someones safety. Dm in front so you or others can engage. Fly around just for engaging. Do you hunt someone down?
You can really easy switch from passive to aggressive in just a second. 

I recommend to watch a guide from MindFuzz. 
I recommend playing Zarya, then it's easy to know when the bubble is being effective, and then you an take that knowledge over to Dva.

The idea though is to block some damage in downtime but not more than a second here or there, and then protect people already taking damage. You can also see battles others are in, and shield your teammates so they win the 1v1. You can make Ana easy to kill with matrix if someone else is shooting her, since she then can't shoot sleep or nade.
Things which I can do on dva.-

Protect supports and dps from flankers by using Def matrix.

Protect Winston when he dives.

If a pharah or a cree ults I envelope them in the Def matrix practically making them invulnerable to everyone cept a potential zarya lmb or a Winston lmb.

Block pharah and cree ults

If someone is mis positioned then dive them. But still prioritize playing as an enforcer rather than a dive carry.

I sometimes if required use my ult to refresh my mech hp. 

I play the palanqin and the police skin. 

But since she is about to be nerfed (reworked) heavily her playstyle may change. 

Tips - if a tracer flanks you sync your RMB presses with her clips. This way she Shoots you block. She reloads your DEF  matrix recharges. Never chase a reaper to 1v1 him and expect to win if he has more than 1/4th hp. 

Don't over extend. 

Keep track of enemy ults. Watch the kill cam when you die to someone. You can use your ult to refresh mech when your healers are dead and you are the only one on point. 

Micro manage your matrix don't use it all at once. 

Try and keep half of the meter full at all times so in case a pharah ults you can stop most of it. 

Use your defense matrix not only aimed at the enemies but sometimes allies as well. You matrixing some one is as good as making him invulnerable to damage. So a low hp friendly mercy caught out of position and widow trying to shoot her, right click on the mercy from any angle and widows shots can't hit her.! 

Hope I was of help. Goodluck and have a blast. 

a) Play other heroes too and you will get a Feeling of when to matix. e.g. Tracer. she has a pretty preset reloadcycle that matches the downtime of your Matrix quite well. you can toggle on and off. Reaper. If you get matrixed with Reaper you usually will use the time to reload. She starts Shooting you and you ask why did I reload with 5  shots left . So for D.va - he Drops his guns? Shoot him. Or Pharah. You don´t NEED D.Matrix to block her ultimate. You can also straight fly into her face. You might lose you mech but she will definitly kill herself. If you got D.Ma ready drop it as you are getting Close to her.

b) Do you have to protect your Team from other sources? Do it. Else shoot them. You outdps Winston with ease. And Zarya does not have the mobility to get you if you want to avoid her.

c) Can your Team kill their supports faster if you join them? Yes? Do so. No? Protect yours.

d) If noone handles the Widow it´s propably a good idea. You won´t be able to kill a decent Widow though. but it might be enough to create the space and distraction. Winston or Widow are better at actually killing the opposing sniper. Let them do their Job and do yours.

e) Just Play. As you can already see you are starting to get a Feeling when you should have saved it. And be careful about the I don´t Need it. If you boost in their faces and melee them that´s quite some burstdamage. In Addition you displace them, even might knock them off the map.

Start using it to prevent damage. Like boosting in the enemies and above them. Your healers will get good line of sight while you break theirs and even mess with their aiming by knocking them around. Or boost to the next healthpack. Especially if you got a Sombra. Eating damage and feeding Sombra ult is a valid strategy.
a) Use short bursts of matrix whenever possible, unless you're eating Pharah's, Soldier's or Roadhog's ult try not to empty it all on a single use. I tend to prioritize eating Pharah's rockets and Junkrat spam because of the AoE (and fully charged Sym orbs, and Rein firestrikes because they can pass through your whole team) but also use it in 1 second bursts sometimes to protect a support from an enemy Tracer, or someone who has gotten hooked...

And of course, adding to that, try to keep track of the enemies and the ults you know you can eat, this comes mainly from playing, you get to know which behaviors indicate that an ult is about to come your way. Pharah/Reaper dissapearing for a while? They're probably flanking to get into position to ult, so pay attention to sound cues (Pharah's boosters are quite loud, and if she's close you can hear her hover, Reaper's footsteps and teleport can be heard a mile away) With time, you'll know which places they're likely to come from.

b) Be very afraid of a charged Zarya, and unless you are being healed or near top health, and she's low heal, do NOT shoot her while she's bubbling. 

Symmetra (for me at least) is scary on a 1v1 as I have trouble tracking her while she circle jumps me. I tend to GTFO with boosters and either go back for heals or shoot her outside of her range (not optimal range for Dva but I don't want to get any closer than I have to). 

If Mei's freezing you and you're alone, run. She'll freeze you, shoot you and repeat until you're out of mech. And even if you manage to get her low, she can reset the fight with cryoblock. 

Winston on the other hand barely tickles you, his DPS is so low he takes a looong time to get you out of mech and him and his bubble melt to dva's dps, so you should win 1v1 easily (he can't escape you, his boosters and yours have the same cooldown, though be wary of chasing him into the middle of his team). 

If any of these characters is in the middle of your team, focusing on you or other teammates, shoot at them, you can't block most of the damage they deal so your best option is to help kill them before they can do much damage.

c) Not exactly your job but you can peel quite well with DM, if you block a Tracer or Genji and force them to spend more time trying to kill your teammate, you increase the odds of them getting killed by someone. You should matrix Reaper's shots whenever you can, as you deny him damage and healing at the same time and hopefully someone will kill him for you (but be wary of smart Reapers baiting out matrix so they can ult right after).

d) If you see a enemy low on health, you can finish him quite easily. If a sniper has set up his camping spot and no one in your team is doing anything about it then yeah, it's kind of your job to get them out of their spot. Don't have to kill them, go for the kill if you can but just booping them out of their spot and making them have to lose time repositioning works fine sometimes.

e)Boosters are your mobility, just try not to use them to get into situations where you need them to GTFO. I use them to get to and contest high ground, to throw ults into the enemy team, for disruption via booping, and to go help teammates survive their current fight (boosters make dva a hero almost able to be in 2 places at once, you can be frontlining and go to either backline in a second). Also, if you're playing near a cliff or a place you can be victim of an environmental kill, be careful with your use, do not get to positions near a cliff using your boosters (unless you're doing the booping) as it's very easy for a Lucio or Pharah who has been paying attention to boop you out of the map.

Edit: fixed the wording on some sentences.
To ensure you have enough DM, try not to use it for trash damage. You can use it quickly if a healer is taking heavy damage just to give them some time to get to cover or if a teammate gets hooked by a roadhog. Otherwise, keeping track of ultimates is important. If you haven't seen mccree for a little while, he's likely going to high ground to use high noon. If reaper is wraith forming to get inside your backlines, you can bet he's going to ult. 
Rework, but yeah what he said
Not sure of its a nerf, but definitely a rework

PSA: When your Roadhog hooks a tank, HELP HIM KILL THAT TANK!
Hey! I've been playing a *ton* of Roadhog lately (I originally thought the moving while healing/DR buff was stupid but after playing him I've found he's actually a lot more viable than I thought) and something I've noticed is that it's pretty rare for me to hook a tank for for teammates to help me kill them. Hog is one of the few heroes who can actually threaten a D.va, but I can't kill her on my own. I need your help! If you see me hook someone that I won't be able to kill on my own (usually tanks), please shoot them while I'm reeling them in! The most I can do to an enemy D.va on my own is get her down to about half, and if she has boost or lots of Defense Matrix she'll probably get away. Help me de-mech her!It should be the same reflex as a Rein charging in and whiffing everything, landing in the middle of your team: kill him dead with murder. What you say is in fact not only true for Hog, it's for example also true for a discorded or hacked target. Your team should pay attention to these things, if they don't, just call it out.
I feel like the general PSA is:

Help kill an enemy if they've been hooked, discorded, hacked (as a Sombra main, this one especially), caught in a grav, caught in Eathshatter, etc.
Honestly Overwatch could do with more teamplay as a whole. The amount of abilities other heroes have which benefit heavily from teammate stepping in for follow up, but rarely ever bothering to do so, is absolutely insane. The amount of times I have personally set up a teammate, or have seen someone else on my team set up a specific hero, for a good play which never gets executed is insane.

A lot of it can simply be chocked up to be timing, but sometimes its simply the fact the rest of your team... are just not playing as a team. They're too caught up in their own world to notice what everyone else is doing around them. 

Soldier? I just slept this Tracer and you have helix rockets. Could you help me out? No? Just gonna keep peeking around the corner? Thats fine, I guess.

Hey team, our Zen just ulted and is pushing forward by himself. We should probably follow him. No? Okay, we can just stay in the choke behind Orisa's old and ready-to-break barrier I guess.

I'm holding Defense Matrix over this Torb turret. Why are you shooting at the Winston bubble, McCree and Pharah? Could you help me take this thing down? Ow. Torb is beating me with his hammer. 

I'm sure in plenty of cases voice chat would help a ton. But so would simply looking to see what plays your teammates are making. I actively try to keep track of what my teammates are doing and assist in anyway I possible can; I guess this is why I main tank and support heroes. I think the game in general would be loads better if, like OP suggested, people just act when your CC/Support (majority of which are tanks and support) heroes make a major move. 

Edit for disclaimer: I know its insanely hard to keep track of EVERY hero in this game constantly. But if you're playing with a tank and/or healer (as you should be), then keeping moderate track of those heroes if probably a really good idea. 
Make sure that you call out targets that you have hooked as well, this allows your team to turn around and focus that threat.
When your Mei freezes a tank, kill that tank. The struggle is real for both of us
ITT: Kill things that are cc'd. duh?
Get zen to sit with you. To me its the perfect duo
This really isn't a PSA. Anyone who would shoot at a tank who is out of position would shoot at a tank who is hooked. Anyone who wouldn't shoot at a tank out of position isn't going to be on this subreddit.
Any hooked target not just tanks. This has been true since before he was nerfed to shit.

if you need some Symmetra sidekick to noodlebeam your D.Va just call me.
Really, it's just good to remember to focus fire. Unless you are a flanking Genji or Tracer and you're going after a quick pick on a healer, you should be looking to shoot at someone that is already being shot at. 

The only notable exception is that 76 should be firing at a pharamercy. 
Team should focusfire for every stun. Also McCrees stun, Meis, Reinhardts charge (Specialy if Zarya bubbles the stunned target, help kill that bubble fast)
I think a good way to deal with this is to _not_ be the person playing Roadhog. In other words: focus not on setting up plays, but on watching for when your teammates set up plays & then help them execute.
Not just friendly Roadhog, either.  My default reaction to hearing that hook sound is to turn and shoot at it.  If it's a friendly 'Hog, I can help bring down whatever he's reeled in.  If it's an enemy 'Hog, I can lay on some damage while he's immobile and unable to heal, and hopefully disrupt his aim with Pharah's rocket knockback so he doesn't chunk whichever of my teammates he's hooked.  
> Hog is one of the few heroes who can actually threaten a D.va

Not to challenge your main point which is a great one, but the above specific is probably going to change unless ptr changes get a drastic overhaul.

New dva is looking to be significantly less tanky and will likely be much easier to bully. On the other hand she'll be able to give as good as she gets, even during her much briefer dm uptime, so be wary of trying to solo bully a healthy dva, she might just bully you back.
As a Mercy main, I tend to follow a decent leveled Roadhog. I found that with a boost, and maybe few hits before, I don't know, he tends to be able to kill most if not all squishies just like before the nerf. I find it's really important to boost tanks in general, as to elevate there damage from just trash damage that a dps can finish up, into a real force to be recond with. A decent Winston boosted can really take the piss out of most characters, especially a Genji who is really causing a lot of grief on the point. But Roadhog especially needs the boost as I feel most people aren't used to the nerf yet and might think they can (or should)  still plow through a point held down by a squishies horde.  
When your Roadhog hooks anything, help him kill that thing.
One combo I've found pretty effective is Orisa's mini-grav and hog's hook to force an overextension through a choke. It's almost like having hog's hook 1.0 back when you could pull people around corners.  
This is my new favorite tactic when defending hanamura point A or Volskaya A where there's pretty much one choke for ground-based heroes. Bonus points if you have a mei to wall off the choke behind them.
PSA: When your Roadhog hooks a [nearly every hero, except Tracer], HELP HIM KILL THAT [nearly every hero, except Tracer]!
As added advice, angle yourself BEHIND the tank he hooked if they are Rein, DVa, Orisa, or Winston. If they have a shield then you can still damage them. This is especially important for Dva because she will bounce into your loving arms when she breaks out of her Mech. Winston will drop his shield and run or jump away, but it's likely he will come toward you as well. 

Whatever you choose, definitely help kill the tank.
Soon more and more people will learn roadhog
Admittedly this is probably the not the 1st thread being made on this topic, but you have a point.
same for anything else hog hooks
Did anyone read this post and think to themselves "yeah I should be helping roadhog kill targets he pulls"?
If someone is CC'd, execute Order 66 on them.
Rein + road is really fun these days. Road will hook behind my rein shield and I'll drop my shield quickly and give the target one swing and he's dead
Youtubers should made videos on this subject:

If your HoadHog has hooked someone / Your ally was hooked by an Hog

If your Rein is charging someone / Your ally was charged by an Rein

Do this:

1. Focus fire, help to get the kill or save the ally

2. Heal him, but not put yourself in danger if you're an Lúcio or Mercy

3. Discord, FlashBang, Damage Boost, Trap, Freeze. Use your CCs on that enemy! Specially if your Hog is hooking other Rog, that thing have basically 900HP and 50% damage reduction, is harder than killing an ulted Winston these days.


PS. The Discord / Damage Boost allows Rod to do what he was able to do on the old days, safely killing squishes with a single Hook + Fire + punch combo
I play Zen primarily and I always try to discord a hooked target, someone that Rein is chasing down, etc.  Teamwork makes the dreams work.
As a mei main, I usually just wall them so they are trapped right in front of you. 
I made a post about not feeding and trickling... apparently it was not scholarly enough. People made snarky comments and it was removed. Focus fire is just one of those things... that people should know too, right? I mean, I feel like a reminder is good from time to time, especially since this game gets new people all the time, and maybe I'm a bit salty about the whole "flamed and then had post removed", but I guess I'd just like things to be consistent.
When your roadhog hook goes out, if you're a damage dealer your crosshair should snap to the spot in front of him, wait a tick, then start blasting through him whether you can see the target or not. 
most people will shoot anyways and if they dont they probably wont listen to calls either so
Or just don't play road hog 
| hacked target  
Ha! I wish I had 1 dollar for every gengu I had to chase all over the map by myself. Part of the problem is that the hacking is not very visible, should be purple tbh
It's true. People just take a long time to change their habits, it's going to take a while for the general OW population to stop viewing Hog as a solo killer. 
God I love killing a rein charge, I'm practically giddy when I see it coming

on quickplay they get this weird tunnel vision where they are just gonna kill that guy they tried to charge, meanwhile they have their back facing half the enemy team and are a gigantic target

I've killed many a rein as mercy before by gliding away from the charge and then shooting them in the back

it is really fun for me
What, you mean when the enemy Winston jumps into my team I'm not supposed to say "That's somebody *elses* problem" and ignore him?
And frozen!
Also when they start focussing on your healer/s.
On the other hand, if the target is slept and you do little/unreliable damage don't take it upon yourself to engage. 
FOR THE ZEN MAINS
***

When you see a hook, hack, or a tank charging into battle from the opposing team

USE DISCORD. 

Also, protip: If you're not under fire, your five-shot should always be charging. Three of them is enough to take down a tracer, and you can cancel it with melee if you need to put orbs on teammates or enemies.

I had quite a few kills yesterday that came by chance as lone DPS or tanks charged in and tried to kill me or someone nearby. Didn't work.

Also to note: Reinhardt's shield is only a threat if you're in front of it. Feel free to run at him while your orbs are charging, and hit him in the back. It chips down a LOT of health.
I had a game as Ana a couple days ago where our Rein charged almost every sleep I made. It was glorious. No communication between us at all (was QP EU so no one bothers to join voice chat)

One of the things that end up bothering me a lot when playing solo queue is  playing characters that have abilities that are team oriented and no one is taking advantage of the opportunities provided. (Covering with matrix every shot of enemy Reaper who somehow has gotten into the middle of our team and no one shoots him, seeing teammates hurt and calling for group up while dropping biotic field and they end up running away...)
> The amount of abilities other heroes have which benefit heavily from teammate stepping in for follow up, but rarely ever bothering to do so, is absolutely insane.

I only duo with a buddy, and we play the following heroes: Zen/Zarya/Mercy/Reaper.

It is shocking how quickly a Harmonied Reaper can tear through team with coordinated discords. Same with Zarya. A 90% Zarya getting damage boosted by a Mercy/Zen can stay alive through anything.
Overwatch could use a chat lobby system that doesn't suck to build premade groups.  Would really help build up a community to get full teams. 
I was playing Sombra in comp last night and every time I called out a hacked enemy/healthpack the Genji on my team would imitate me in the dumbest voice and it made me laugh so much the entire game.  

Dunno why your post reminded me of that, but if you're that Genji just know I love and loathe you lmao

Just realised I misread "hooked" as "hacked" but I've typed it all out now so it's staying 
The game can be too fast to wait for people to turn around and focus. It's possible to call out an impending hook, like "I'll grab D'Va", but, in my experience, any opportunity hook relies on teammates already paying attention.
Man, if I had a dollar for every D.va I freezed that the rest of my team then immediately ran away from at lightspeed, I could buy so many loot boxes...
You should sleep if you are sleepy. 
100% agree.  A discorded hook target is like the old hog.  Squishies get one shot.

I'm a former hog main and have turned to Zenyatta.  What that means is that when i have a hog on my team, i know who to discord, and i basically follow my hog around and help him shred the enemy.  Plus i try to keep harmony on him since Hog just takes sonmuch damage constantly.  I get ult pretty darn fast!

So make friends with a good Zenyatta!
The feeling you get when you've got an altfire almost completely charged and your hog lands a hook. Mmmm.
There are some of us noobs.  I'm trying dammit!
PSA: Smoking is bad for your health.

Why do people over estimate the intelligence of other people while simultaneously thinking everyone else is stupid? 
He shouldn't be firing at them alone if it's Pharmercy (unless you're using tacvisor). Also, if they're running Pharmercy, either you kill them first or you kill the rest of their team first. In both cases, you should be focus firing with your team.

Edit: Yes, it's his job to shoot Pharmercy down, but he should have some help doing it because unless god aim it takes some time to drop Mercy and Pharah (and it's highly unlikely they'll run and hide if it's just a soldier firing at them)
I absolutely agree. I'm a good soldier because half the time I am sitting behind the healers, shooting at the free picks, practicing focus fire, building ult charge, and burning down barriers. You don't always need a flanker. But when I play genji and I dive in, how do I know who is low?
Very true on the enemy hog.  I just was able to join a discord group my friend was in.  As a Lucio "main" (still way noob) I was able to boop a few Hog Hooks the enemy got on our people.  I got a few props, which was nice as my aim is still currently crap.  
Hog can still 3 shot her, and he can heal through rockets. The OP thing about new DVA is that if she lands her rockets, she's going to have self destruct way more often. A Dva may charge in with 70% ult charge with the intention of blowing up. 

ALTHOUGH THINK ABOUT THIS! Hog hooks dva mech while it is ulting, throws if off side, uses take a breather and jumps off side. PIGS FLY!
He absolutely can one shot with Mercy boost provided they aim correctly. But that's also the problem. He can *reliably* one shot only with boost.
I personally think that the hacked targets should have the ASCII skull above their head (like healthpacks and turrets). It would also help with knowing when the hack is going to wear off (helps both teams, tbh). It would also be easier to see.
> Part of the problem is that the hacking is not very visible, should be purple tbh

^ This. So much this. Red mist on an already red delineated enemy is easy to miss, particularly in the middle of a fight.

If the hacking effect was purple it would be much easier to notice. This would be a **HUGE** QoL change for Sombra!!!
I'v hacked many mercy's with res, and my team is too busy with other things to kill her, its kind of frustrating, but then again as Sombra getting to places to hunt a target down is much safer than for example soldier or mei..
>| hacked target  

If you're wondering how to do the blue line, put a \> before the quoted text. 
 
Yea its not nearly noticeable enough. Sometimes its hard to tell who I even hacked if it was in a cluster
Roadhog is now the dude that feeds his own team ult charge by pulling enemies out of position, well for me it's always been like that. I don't play hog, but I shoot whatever he hooks, never know when they'll get DM'd or bubbled, so just kill whatever is an easy target is my policy =D
Tip: Junky's bombs and Phara's rockets bump frozen targets around a bit - help finish them off by making sure you're taking a killshot or you might bump the head of your target away from a lovingly aimed Meicicle.
Do you wanna kill the red team?
And sleep darted! (If you can finish the job.)
> you can cancel it with melee if you need to put orbs on teammates or enemies.

Cool. Never knew.
>I had a game as Ana a couple days ago where our Rein charged almost every sleep I made.

That's called listening to audio queues and good game sense. It feels like sometimes people play with music or no audio.
It's amazing when you find a teammate who is just phase-locked to your wavelength. I used to play a lot of League and it's the best feeling in the world when you play a support and your DPS follows the fuck up with everything they have every single time you land a CC ability. Or when you play DPS and the support just throws out clutch heals/shields one after the other.
Yep. I play a ton of DVa and have absolutely been there before. 

The worse, at least I think, is when you have plenty of nearby teammates to take out the Reaper whom you're currently blocking everyone shot of.. and people are too busy shooting at enemies half the field away and ignoring the Reaper currently targeting the back-line. 

Absolutely drives me nuts to sit through 4 full seconds of DM without anyone listening to the sounds of Reaper trying to tear up their team. :/
Sombra: "I've hacked the mega behind point"

Genji: "I'vE hAckeD THe meGa BehIND PoInT"

EDIT: I think Genji was being a genius though. By doing that, he made sure your team would hear & remember what you said.
And that reminded me of the Torb Turkey I played with last night. Every kill he or his turret got, he'd scream this beautiful turkey sound. When he got POTG, our whole team turkey screamed in his honor. 
I can't play genji :(
to kill the cyberdemon, shoot him until he dies
This is exactly why when I am playing Mercy I try to throw damage boost on Roadhog every hook he lands. It's just terrifying to see him tear through everything again, especially since his sustain is so much better than it used to be.
O.O

Make it happen & post back vid :)
That's what I'm here for lol
man you are a genius  
jeff make it happen, I know you lurk here
Zen can't get discord icon to show up for the rest of the team and you're hoping for sombra's hack icon? 

Don't get your hopes up man.
Maybe it interferes with the "ultimate ready" check mark icon?
OOC did you announce the hack via voice chat?
New Hog isn't just an ult battery tbh, he feels very dangerous again since you can't kill that fucker and he'll get his ult faster than you can ever get yours. He's without a doubt more tanky but still feeds lots of ult.
Very good way of looking at it
>lovingly

Pretty sure the look in Mei's eyes at that moment is something other than love. 
You move my target, you'd better kill my target. <grumbling in Mandarin>
Yeah, one of my friends has no clue why the rest of us get so upset at him for blasting music while he plays. He says it makes him aim better, we say it doesn't matter how well you aim when a reaper sneaks up behind you...if he would just try without music once he might see how awesome the audio files in this game are.
Yep, I've had some amazing games with people where not a word was exchanged and however we were working like clockwork, perfectly synchronized. 

I've had it happen with several roles, I have been 76 in a game with a perfect Reinhardt who never ran out of shield, it was a delight to be able to shoot while feeling (almost) completely safe.

I have been Dva in games where the heals were so good I could harass the enemies all game, felt nearly invincible, and the DPS were using the distractions for all their worth.

I have been Ana solo-healing in games where people peeled for me so well I could keep most of my team topped up and not worry too much about my own safety. 

Those are the games I play for, they come once in a while but when you get one... it's totally worth it.
Sadly some people don't understand that Dva works best with a DPS by her side. (For now, we'll see how the new changes affect her)
Although it wasn't like that, he had this really weird quasi-Elmo like voice that he kept doing and it was so stupid and funny.  Easily something that could have tilted a team but I just couldn't stop laughing.  My call outs turned to shit after about 2 minutes cus my belly was hurting 
It's games like this that people have to remember when they're not having fun and say the game sucks.
That's amazing
*jeff nerfs roadhog*
Man, it must be hard for Jeff Kaplan to design, code and maintain this entire game and it's servers all by himself.
I mean, one is a buff to a dps and one is a buff to a 'support'. The cynic in me says that we should expect this sombra change soon.
Discord is far more visible than hacking is.
Discord is far more visible than hacking is.
The discord orb is actually shown above the target's head, to both teams. The hack is only shown with a semi-transparent particle effect.
And he can also tank almost all ults
She's trying to end the pain. If everyone is dead, nothing bad can happen
Sounds like you had fun :)
*jeff buffs pharmercy*
I for one have faith in him.
Seriously. Making him *not* give off charge while healing would be insanely op 
that makes him the.. ultimate tank 
*jeff drops reinhardt shield to 50HP because is too strong*
*Jeff makes Orisa shield bigger and cooldown instantly*
*Jeff gives hanzo triple health*

Tips on hitting DF e offensively
I miss most of my e on targets and that really screws up my kill opportunities.I can't turn up my sensitivity or else that would mess with my basic attack/fist accuracy so idk what to doFor the time being, practice. I'm not convinced that there isn't a glitch or something wonky with DF's punch hit box. Even pre-nerf I found where I would pass through certain characters during certain events. For instance, on two separate occasions I passed over a sleeping McCree that I feel like should have connected. Post patch these feel much more apparent but it could just be a bit of bias because I feel like the nerf was a bit extreme. That being said, I have had friends and others (here on reddit) complain of the same thing. Passing through character models when it should have connected. Play a customer deathmatch mode the other day with some friends 3 of us noticed this as I was playing DF and punched through a Symmetra. The Sym player said I should have hit them and a third person who witnessed it noticed the same. Kill feed even showed me passing through the Sym. I wish I had recorded any of it to post for Blizzard to review.

Anyway, bottom line is there could be glitches causing you to miss. Or maybe it's just mine (and others') imagination and we all just need to practice more.

Edit: I just realized after posting that I misread the post. It wasn't about the post it was about the Seismic Slam ability. Regarding Slam, if you Upper Cut into the air or jump off of an elevated surface you'll get a reticle on the ground showing where your slam will hit. People do move though and you'll have to adjust your aim on the fly. It can be very difficult to do because you're pulling in so close that you can't track as effectively in that last split second before you land. Personally, I think Slam could use a tracking ability that auto pulled you in front/behind a target so you didn't overshoot but that may be a bit OP. If you use Slam from an elevated surface then you don't get any reticle. You just have to play around with it to get a sense of how far you'll leap and be ready to adjust your aim on the fly. Doing this, however, can give you more of a charge in it's ability (up to 125). Upper Cut + Slam usually gives around 86 +/- 1 or 2. Some areas you can get the full 125 just from leaping. Alternatively, you can Upper Cut onto a roof awning (is that spelled right?) that you can kind of "surf" along to get the full charge but you have far less accuracy this way.

Need an advice on playing in competetive
The matter is that I almost never play as healers in competetive mode. The reason for that it's not that I can't (though my positioning as Mercy or aim to play Ana or Zen leave much to be desired), it's because I find playing as ones and supporting in general underwhelming (and therefore, frustrating), and whenever I try to explain that to my teammates, 80% of times I get booed, flamed and advised to go into QP. So, the question is - should I consider that a reason to get off competetive and does everyone have to be flexible/universal to play it?
(600+ lvl, never left gold)
(sori fur bed ingles)If your aim/positioning is holding you back, you should work on that regardless of what role you prefer. 

Edit: Now to your topic

I think if you are bad at playing support, you can refuse to do it and ignore the flame. Since you are in gold, you don't really need to have two healers in every game. Often enough you will have a mercy main in your team, who can provide the necsessary heal.

Just play what you are good at and you will be able to climb to plat. From there you should practice at least one tank, one healer, and one dps
> it's because I find playing as ones and supporting in general underwhelming (and therefore, frustrating), and whenever I try to explain that to my teammates, 80% of times I get booed, flamed and advised to go into QP.

Are you me? I think you're me.

I had my fill of that crap last night after yet another insistent 4-dps slam-pick squad, with one guy switching to Torb on defense because he knew Torb was good on defense even if he never personally fired a shot. Everyone fucks off in different directions without talking about it, nobody's in LOS, nobody seems to be protecting the objective, it's basically deathmatch with longer queues and here comes the 5v2 and everyone shoots at you first and you die sad and alone. Or they all face forward like transfixed penguins because they see something you clearly don't (again, without saying what), someone winds up behind us, you call it out and you die anyway. Or or or. Etc. And despite having four damage dealers, nobody gets picks because they're all trying to take on the whole team themselves one at a time. There could very well be some underpinning 3D chess strategy going on here but nobody's explained it and we can't see it. We spin the wheels and pull tactics out of hats: stick with the largest group, stick with the fastest group, the most talkative, stick on the obj, nothing helps. Two thirds of the round is spent either either dead or running back, you sit on your rez basically forever because there's never an opportunity to use it on anyone who'd come back to life in a position to do something worthwhile, and then you lose. Again. And again. Not one of you is having fun, but you're enjoying it the least because you've made yourself the team pariah for the sake of the almighty comp.

It sounds toxic as fuck when you put it that way, but there's an ugly truth lurking under all of that justifiable saltiness. It's not that we aren't "better than them"; we're well aware of that. Our positioning isn't great, we make a few disastrous GAs, we get caught with our pistols out, but we're not Mercy mains and we don't really understand the role well-enough to play it at this level.  We're trying because that's the role we think our team needs. We're not [our current SR]-level support players. In the event our team does manage to bottle lightning and play well enough to make us the point of failure, we're going to fail them and we're going to lose and that's 100% on us. The truth is we set our team up for failure when we grumbled and groaned and punched the H key through the bottom of the keyboard and clicked Mercy for the eleventillionth fucking time with a mouse button hit so hard the echo was picked up by geologists and an expletive that could be heard from space. 

So we need to make a choice. We can either be the pariah and stuff our balls into the escalator night after night, or we can pick someone useful with a good self-heal, declare "I'm healing me, dunno what yall gonna do" and do our best to carry the team with clear objectives, good explanations and above all else, a steady, positive (or at the very worst, neutral) attitude. 

Or we can go back to QP and put in the 60 hours on Ana or Mercy or the support du jour to build the competence we need to be able to fearlessly pick those healers and call the shots for our team. (e: We won't do this because healing is not what we consider fun.)

Just imagine you meet 5 people who will think exactly like you.  You'll play with 6 dps or a similar bad comp and (most of the time) horribly lose the game. 
Are you okay with that? Keep going. Then there is this one guy who tries to fill and heal/tank/support, tries really hard and does well but it's not enough because he's stuck with 5 people that only play dps. Do you not give a shit about this guy or teamplay in general and the sacrifice for the sake of the team? Keep going

If not I suggest you learn to play a support and healer, for those times it can't be avoided. Don't have to be as good with it as your dps heroes but know enough to not be a burden. 
you dont have to play support but you should play tank and not only DD. theres a lack of tank in ranked so i recommend playing tank instead.

also if your aim is bad how do you play dps? and what about positioning? its somethignt that applies to all heroes.
If you hate support I think Zen is the best choice. Lucio is incredibly boring unless you're getting boops, Ana is frusturating in the current meta, Mercy is really slow paced, and Sym dosent count. With Zen you can get kills but it's not necessary as long as you are pumping damage into shields and getting good discords.
Duo with support main. Noone ever gonna flame you for not picking 2nd supp in this situation.
It matters if you have slow PC/Internet, because when you enter a game, if you are the last person to lock your hero it is expected for you to fill in what ever position your team is lacking. My pc is fairly decent, so i often time lock my hero among first 3 people thats why i have no problem playing DD all the time, and people generally leave me alone.  If you cant lock in fast enough - learn to flex, otherwise theres goin to be a shit-show in your games. 
What if those 4 dps you had a bad experience with have exactly the same mind set though? You'll be one of them now, while some other cooperative guy will take on the poor role as the sad support that gets ignored with 4 dps on the team? 

Even as a support/tank main I understand how shitty it can be to support a team that has very little gamesense, has a very selfish way of playing and very little interest in cooperating or looking out for each other and will give you shit for "not giving them a single heal all game". 

I think you before you go "fuck my team, I'm gonna go independent dps" you might want to look at your team closely and see what they are made of. 5 Hanzo mains that don't give a fuck? I'll just do whatever the fuck I want, perhaps practice my sombra. If there's a group of 3 (even more) stubborn dps mains that do a halfway decent job, rest filling as good as they can, everybody trying hard... wouldn't you do the same?

I think theres a difference between teams where the majority isn't giving a fuck and those teams that try but somehow doesn't work out or the enemy team is simple a little better. 
I'd say comp requires teamwork and cooperation, even if that sometimes takes not playing the hero you want to play, when there are 2 supports on the team I won't pick a 3rd support but try my best at mccree or a tank or whoever. I don't think this has necessarily to do anything with balls in escalators. It only does when you play with 5 dps and you get shit for not healing them to victory and just take it because you're trying to win. Just don't be that guy who complains about his balls being stuffed in escalators and then expecting others to stuff theirs into it every single game and even give them shit for it if they don't stuff it properly.
lol no its not. talk to people and if they dont like it so be it.
>I think theres a difference between teams where the majority isn't giving a fuck and those teams that try but somehow doesn't work out or the enemy team is simple a little better. 

This is true. And if the matchmaker's doing its job, you're going to meet teams that are better than you - teams that should win - about half the time. 

Ideally, we'd all be focused on a coherent comp made of heroes we can actually play at our SR, to make us more likely to win those 50-50 matches. Sometimes this means making compromises on the hero select screen. It just feels like I'm the person making that compromise in every single match and my team, my own experience and my precious garbage SR are suffering for it. But that's all I know. You're very correct in guessing that just about everyone here has had the same experience, and the answer for all of us is the same: Go back to QP, develop skills at a support that are commensurate with your SR, come back to Comp. They're not going to run out of racial slurs and people smashing keyboards into their mics while you're gone, honest.

>It only does when you play with 5 dps and you get shit for not healing them to victory and just take it because you're trying to win.

I've played a whole 23 comp matches this season. Seventeen times I've been squeezed into a support role I'd rather not have played. My win rate as a support is a dismal 37.5%. I have no business healing at my SR and I don't want to do it. Nobody else wants to do it either, so either I fold my arms and sit in the corner and piss my own pants, or I do what the the team seems to need and hope for the best. I don't want a cookie. Maybe just a little extra protection :). OW is a team game, I should be a better healer than I am, but good god man please let someone else do it for a bit.

>What if those 4 dps you had a bad experience with have exactly the same mind set though? You'll be one of them now, while some other cooperative guy will take on the poor role as the sad support that gets ignored with 4 dps on the team? 

I don't know the answer to that. I only know my own story. Maybe the guy slamming Hanzo in this match just went 0-11 as supports and will strangle me with my own mouse cord if I suggest he help heal the Genji-Doomfist-Tracer-Bastion team we just found ourselves on. Maybe the Genji's got 300 hours of god-like hero slaying and would rather drink paint than tank. Maybe the attack Bastion actually drank paint as a child. Or maybe we're going to steamroll them because they're playing two-shields and the first teamfight they lose will mean four minutes of them staggering while we walk from checkpoint to checkpoint. 

You can't know how the match is going to go by looking at the hero select screen. Bitching people out for it isn't the way to solve it. Thanking someone for flexing to the role you need is, and if someone gets on that guy's ass for being bad at it, remind that person that his keyboard has an H button too. 

Whats Not? The untold rule of "Last person fills" been here from season 1 and not just in this game. IF you do not want to get in to an argument you have to lock faster or else you will get this 

>it's because I find playing as ones and supporting in general underwhelming (and therefore, frustrating), and whenever I try to explain that to my teammates, 80% of times I get booed, flamed and advised to go into QP

I'm not sure, but you really made me laugh a few times. I'm convinced now that most of the Bastion mains did indeed drink paint as a child.

In the end nobody forces you to go support and it's a matter of compromise where you have to decide if you want to go DPS no matter what, somehow enjoy it even in suboptimal comps (while making it more frustrating for supports like me) but have mediocee success or if you are willing to flex in certain games with slightly better success.

However you must get better with all the practice you've gotten lately! And yes, as I've mentioned, I'd absolutely base my decision by my teams behaviour. You must have had positive experiences by flexing to supports as well. On the other hand, the last thing I'd do and enjoy is playing babysitter for a bunch of assholes.

Actually, finding a mate who is support main and will queue with you might help you out. That's a win-win usually. Even as a support main you will end up in games with 2 (or more) people that main lucio and mercy, sometimes I even have to play dps and it's horrible I tell you. By queuing with others you'll make that less likely to happen and have often covered that most dreaded role.
lol you must suck at talking to people, like a LOT. not once has this happened to me, yes you might dont get two tanks or two supps but most people just pick what they want to play(thats another issue). last guy has no obligation to fill.
No, it doesn't work that way and it's not an untold rule. In QP perhaps when everbody wants Genji and Widow. It's a team game, people play together.

Yes, if I want to fill then I wait for the last needed role and/or tell people I'll fill. But if you went to the bathroom and find out that the last needed spot is support and you are reaaaally bad at support, the worst thing you can do is to quietly choose a support and start. Talk to people. Sometimes even picking your prefered role will cause reasonable people to adjust their hero immediately (perhaps after checking your most played heroes).

Same when you lock in first, and realise your team is stubborn and has no supports. You'll probably want to switch to support if you're any good at it and the rest are OTP's.
>I'm not sure, but you really made me laugh a few times. 

Above all else, one must keep a sense of humour. Games are supposed to be fun!

>However you must get better with all the practice you've gotten lately!

I'm not a low-gold Mercy but if I keep practicing in matches like that, I'll soon be the best one in bronze :)

It's really, really hard to practice the teamplay element of healing without a partner. I don't envy you supports your job one bit. It's like herding psychotic cockatoos ("so, cockatoos then?") into the back end of a running paper shredder. Solo queueing as a role that relies so heavily on the sensible, coherent play of others is a punishment I wouldn't wish on Bernie Madoff. I know what Zen's job is, I like discording and shot-calling, it brings the team together, but my 16th percentile healing just ain't gettin the job done. The more games like that I play, the more I understand Tracer and Genji slam-picks.

>Even as a support main you will end up in games with 2 (or more) people that main lucio and mercy, sometimes I even have to play dps and it's horrible I tell you. By queuing with others you'll make that less likely to happen and have often covered that most dreaded role.

If your SR's within a thousand of 1800, I've got great news for you :)
U play  some other game, no point arguing over obvious things.
You people are getting fucking stupid for whatever reason, "talk it out" bla-bla-bla. OP said said it word in word what his problem is, he does not want/cant play sup and hes being called for it, simple as it it. If you lock FASTer than majority of players there is very little possibility anyone will tell you "Hey pick damn sup" right? If you are locking 5/6 pick people will Expect you to pick something needed for the team, whatever it is, say you have 2 sups and you pick 3 sup as the last pick, what are you telling me that will not raise any arguments? Talk it out or not, im just telling you how system works in real life, with toxic teammates, OTPs and InstaLocks. You may fill quietly or you may talk it out(which seems to not work in OP case) but im just saying naked truth, no one will roll a barrel at your if you picked first or second what ever you felt like picking, tell me is that right or im fking blatantly lying here?
Unfortunately I'm currently around 3300 :( l admit it must be 300 times more frustrating to play mercy at that SR. The quality games rare and way more attack bastions.

I played around 400 hrs on all the healers in qp, which was great practice to deal with the equivalent of a bunch of toddlers in a bouncy castle. So the only time comp really pisses me off is when people start being verbally abusive. Then again it can be so much fun to enable your team with solid heals or apply nano boosts at the right time and see what happens. Or laugh genjis in the face while you use transcendence only to land the final blow on him as it ends.

And yes playing with someone you know infinitely improves the game. Could try my friends tactic and just add pretty much any tank or support main you meet :)





If there are too many dps on the team, why is it your obligation to switch from dps to something else only because you picked it 5.3 seconds later than the other 2 guys?
And, how can people make you switch to something not dps if you really do not want to? They can't make you play support.
And no, if there are 4 dps on the team, nobody will even remember who picked what first, 1-2 people will have to switch or the whole team will most likely lose.

Your logic would only work if the game was designed that you couldn't pick a dps hero at all if there was already a certain amount in the team. 

If there is a really shitty teamcomp and nobody talks I'm gonna pick widowmaker (last) and see what happens. If nothing happens, then it's lost no matter what I pick. 

>The quality games rare and way more attack bastions.

The only consistent factor in the low-quality games is me. Well, and this cursed Egyptian amulet in the shape of two ninjas running in different directions.

> Then again it can be so much fun to enable your team with solid heals or apply nano boosts at the right time and see what happens.

I can't say enough good things about healers who help me do my thing without having to hide in an ice block every eight seconds. It truly is an awesome feeling and you're awesome for doing it.

>Could try my friends tactic and just add pretty much any tank or support main you meet :)

When I meet one, I'll surely do that :)
Yare-yare daze, its not logic, its experience. This so called "untold rule" is not  official rule, no one forces you to pick certain heroes, or play meta thats obvious, but no one is happy about that dude who took 30seconds to think before picking up Hanzo as last pick. I dont know where your experience comes from, but im mainly an OTP and i know what exactly will happen if i lock final pick as  DD saying "hey guys u know, i play only DD, man up and change ur heroes to work around it". Even as an OTP i will just fill for last slots and not waste time and energy bickering about Pick-order theoretics proving the point that anyone have equal right to play whatever they want. This discussion can be done here, but in game picking phase it will likely trigger people, i very much prefer to not trigger anyone before game starts. Heck if we were to have this disagreement in game, i cant imagine it would lead to anything productive or positive. So i play by the rule of Last Man Fills, less talking no hassle. Which is what i advised to OP, if he made up his mind and have fast SSD there should not be many problems. 
Speaking of experience. In over 1000 hours of overwatch I have never ever seen or heard something along those lines "hey you guys were too slow, go pick support". 
You are telling me that if I would go pick Widowmaker (X hours played on widow, 500+ on supports) the next guy picks hanzo, then someone goes pharah (pharah OTP with 400 hours) and the other soldier everyone would go: Pharah, Soldier wtf, why do you pick dps when we already have 2, go switch!
When I go Ana, and someone goes Mercy and the next goes Lucio - why would I stick with Ana again and go with 3 supports? I check their profiles, see they have only played those heroes and will quietly switch to Zarya.

I think what you describe, from the POV as a OTP, is the people (like me) that actually wait for the first picks so they can fill. I'm not too slow and that's why I HAVE TO fill, no, I wait because I want to know what's needed, so I CAN fill. The rule is not: The last man fills. The rule is: The player going to flex/fill waits until the end.

My point is: It is NOT a matter of timing, it is a matter of cooperation and flexibility. Don't tell me someone who has 200+ hours on Hanzo and <1 on the rest will actually fill when he is last to pick .. because of reasons (slow pc, toilet, was on desktop, etc.). And if he does, it is the last thing he actually should do, because his Ana will be -1000 SR of his Hanzo performance. So yes, I think it's counter productive if you, as a DD OTP, fill for support at the last pick when others would have been a way better choice.

That being said it's definitely a polite/good thing to do, if you are a OTP, to pick your hero as fast as possible, so people can pick around you as soon as possible and won't pick "your" hero when they are clearly inferior with them. So yes, I agree that you shouldn't reveal that you're a Hanzo OTP 30 seconds into the game.
>Don't tell me someone who has 200+ hours on Hanzo and <1 on the rest will actually fill when he is last to pick .. because of reasons (slow pc, toilet, was on desktop, etc.). And if he does, it is the last thing he actually should do, because his Ana will be -1000 SR of his Hanzo performance.  

I agree on this but it still is very tricky, people can just not look your profile or give any fuck, they will demand him to switch from that Hanzo  even if he will undoubtedly perform better than on Mercy, team morale could be blow up even before game started(assuming no one adjusts). Its personal choice, id rather not go 6DD, not because it will not work, but because its likely will cause a shit-show in chat if things start to go south. I dunno may be its in my blood at this point after playing years of LoL, if i would be that Hanzo last picking, i would feel responsible, if i would be first picking what yet to turn 6DD comp i would not give any fuck and just carry on playing my own game. 

Is my DPI too high?
Hi all

Since Season 4, i have been using a 4000 DPI 1.08 Ingame Sens setup, and although my sens feels pretty slow and steady to me, after seeing so many people reccomending 400 or 800 DPI, im not sure if I should lower my DPI and adjust my sens accordingly. Any advice?In the end it comes down to personal preference. I don't really see a difference between using "high dpi/low sens" vs "low dpi/high sens".
4000 * 1 = 400 * 10
Well I will say be careful not to get the DPI too low or the sens too high, as it would cause pixel skipping. Use this calculator [here](https://pyrolistical.github.io/overwatch-dpi-tool/) to figure out if your DPI and sens are causing pixel skipping.
Here's the thing with this stuff:

If you're lower than diamond, I would not worry about this so much and worry about the game itself more. While it is true that it is way too high to be beneficial, increasing input lag and pixel rounding, you're not going to notice those things until you really need to, i.e. at higher ranks such as Masters and up.
In some games that don't use raw mouse input, having high DPI can cause negative mouse acceleration - actually a hard cap to how fast your mouse pointer can move. However Overwatch is not one of those games, so you should have no problems.
Depends on your mouse.

Some older and crappier sensors will badly misbehave when you set DPI at a non-native value. Setting DPI too low will cause the minimal travel distance to be too high for minute aim adjustments (which is unfortunately commonly referred to "pixel-skipping" despite being unrelated to pixels).
There really shouldn't be a difference between low dpi/high sens and vice versa.

I know some great dps players who use dpi/sens as high as 1800/10
4000 dpi is on the extreme end of the spectrum. High dpi feels overly sensitive to me even when cm/360 is the same. Tiny movements are picked up more frequently which can throw off your aim. 800 seems like the ideal middle ground, 400 is on the extreme low and people only really use it b/c they see others using it or b/c they are used to it from old mice. 
Use eDPI, multiply your DPI by sensitivity to get this, in your case it is 4320 (4000 x 1.08). which is around normal for pro DPS (source: http://prosettings.net/overwatch-best-settings-options-guide/)

Use this number to lower your DPI to around the native DPI of your mouse, which should be able to be found online. This will give your mouse the best accuracy it can. For example my mouse (armageddon starship 3) has a native DPI of 1600, so I use this with a sensitivity of about 2.9 which works well.

Edit: Just saw you have a Razer Deathadder, these apparaently have a native DPI of 1800, so I would set it to that and use a sensitivity of 2.4 to get the best accuracy from your mouse with the same feeling you currently have.
Does it hurt your movement if you lower it?

Yes. -> No it´s not too high. Possibly even too low.

No. -> Yes it´s propably too high. But Finding your optimal sens is on you. It has to feel right.
According to: https://www.easycalculation.com/other/dpi-calculator.php

 The equivalent sensitivity with 1600 dpi (which a lot of people use) is 2.70. So no, i wouldnt say its too high. I think the main difference is the higher the dpi, the less chance you'll experience pixel skipping. Plug your settings into this site and blue is good, red is bad: https://pyrolistical.github.io/overwatch-dpi-tool/
 
 I play at 1600 dpi and 2.77 in game. Its really personal preference. 
your sensitivity is not too high but your DPI is. I recommend changing your DPI to 800 and ingame sensitivity to 5.4, which results in the same sensitivity but better sensor performance for your mouse.
Alot of people say for FPS you need low sens. I used to run 400dpi, but found that too low. As a game like overwatch you would need to turn alot if you play certain heros. If you play someone like Mccree, where all you need is point and click in your general direction you should be fine. But when playing genji or maybe tracer, heros with more intense movment, I found it really hard to move around and look around, and can hold you back.  For example, back when playing tf2 as soldier, you cant have a sens too low as you need to rocket jump alot and you find yourself turning and looking around alot more often, if you compare it to something like cs you dont have that issue as much.
So it depends on your playstyle and personal preference
I like the way 800 dpi feels in Windows, 4000 dpi would be way too fast for me.

Before the advent of 'gaming mice' with high dpi sensors the most popular mice have traditionally used 400 or 800 dpi as default since the late 90s when optical mice first came out (ie ms intellimouse, logitech mx series) so many of us got used to those settings over the years and don't like anything much higher.  
You are not actually using that high of a sensitivity because your in game sensitivity is pretty much 1. Your actual sensitivity is calculated by multiplying your DPI by your in game sensitivity. So your CPI is (4000*1.08) which is 4320. This is the equivalent of 800 DPI and 5.4 in game sensitivity. This is absolutely fine. However, a lot of mice struggle to perform well with a high DPI setting, so I would personally recommend using 1600 DPI and 2.7 in game sensitivity. Hope this helps.
High DPI has always felt "spongy" to me.

Of course I come from the days of 400 DPI mice, playing counter strike with a 20" 180 so I don't know what the kids are doing these days
All blue, thats pretty good
That test gets a lot of things wrong. Skipping problems are unrelated to screen resolution. Choosing the width of a pixel as the lowest tolerable pointer travel distance is entirely arbitrary.
Well damn, even if I use 2000 DPI instead of 800 and reduce my sens accordingly, that calculator gives me a red value for 1080p :o


pixel skipping is bullshit.
Pixel skipping is a lie.
I mean, all of these DPI and sens combos that equal the same eDPI feel the same to me
pixel skipping is bullshit. 
I personally prefer low sensetivites. In fact, when I played competitive TF2, I was able to Rocket Jump with a low sens just fine. My sens has never hindered me in Overwatch
Ill try your settings, thank you

I have a Razer Deathadder Elite, im not sure if that can handle 4000 or not
What mouse do you use? 

Some mice can't handle 4000dpi well and it won't be as accurate. 
Oh. Hmm. I did notice a difference when I made a drastic change to my sensitivity and doing however. 
>equal the same eDPI feel the same to me

Ofc they do? If it´s the same eDPI you did not change anything?

Maybe I just did not get your question.
But it depends how low it is. My point was is that you don't want it too low so you will have that issue, because I personally experienced it, but no everyone may. I still play with low sensitivity, and I fixed it by jumping form 400 to 500 DPI

It probably can but I'd use a lower DPI just in case. The only thing it will effect is navigating through windows, your cursor will move slower than it usually would but it won't effect your sensitivity
Razer Deathadder Elite
Rephrase:

If different combos with the same eDPI feel the same, which DPI would be the most responsive (if DPI matters)
Alright, ill use that then, thank you :)
You will be fine on 4000DPI.

Still, to be safe i'd recommend 1800 DPI and 2.4 sens which should be the same eDPI. 
Ok. I don´t think there would be too much of a difference if you don´t Change the edpi.

Just Keep the dpi of the Hardware low enough so it can actually handle it. But I´m no expert on those things better doublecheck them.
Ok, thanks

Question about the symbol that sometimes appears
I apologise if this is a stupid question but I never understood this. After you kill someone or block some damage there is some number followed by this raindrop-like symbol. What do they mean?It's an indicator that you've added "fire" to your fire meter, the little blue bar in the bottom left of your screen.  As you accumulate fire, the bar will fill up and you will be "on fire" once you've gotten enough.  Your character will say something like "I'm on fire!" and your portrait in the tab menu will be surrounded in blue flames.  Fire decays somewhat quickly, and unless you continue to rack up kills/assists/heals/etc, the fire will extinguish.  

Fire has no impact on gameplay.  There are no bonuses gained from it.  It is solely an indicator that the game thinks you have been doing useful things.  

http://overwatch.wikia.com/wiki/On-fire_Meter
Sorry if this is a short answer but I just wanted to make sure you got one, look up the On Fire system on the wiki and it will explain it in depth   
if you do more damage the number will be higher and it will fill your "on fire" meter
Thanks for all the replies guys!

Need review tracer 2300sr numbani
Hi,
I'd like to have a review of my games, ideally a coaching while watching it.
https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=qnVuXdN6Eck
https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=U_Cz5IFoPpk

Thx very muchIt's extremely easy to nit-pick tracer gameplay so I'm just going to give you some solid points to work on (these will make big differences):

1. Tracking: Practice (there are a million custom games/etc) and become "one" with your mouse. Work on learning the approximate aim adjustment for when you dash sideways while shooting a target, etc.

2. Movement: Try to be more deliberate with your movement, it will cut out the moments you get caught on edges/dash into corners. Have an idea of where you want to go and when you want to dash.

3. Ult management: Keep an eye on your ult charge and practice setting yourself up to use it as soon as possible. There were a few times where you held onto it while unloading 6+ clips into people, big waste.

For the most part you make good decisions, and your most consistent mistake is #3. You will notice as you climb that you will start getting punished for poor/predictable positioning (ie. frontline peeking corners @1:40).

Also try to play a bit more passive once you use recall, at least for a few seconds until it comes up again.

Keep working on that game sense and awareness and you will begin to predict situations that will make your Tracer play flow much more smoothly (instead of reacting to everything). 

Cheers,
Coach EnViouS


1:38 you recall at 143HP

2:33 you move into a small, secluded room when battling a hanzo who still has his scatter. this is basically guaranteed death for tracer

4:16 should have recalled or blinked away once you heard the first hit of reinhardt's hammer connect.

5:03 you battle the hanzo again in the exact same room, resulting in your death. you would have died even earlier if he didn't mess up his scatter

5:20 The switch to pharah makes sense on paper since they don't have a direct counter to you but you sacrifice a lot of stalling power and throw away your ult charge which could have been really useful since zarya was close to grav

General issues: You jump A LOT when fighting. Jumping isn't necessarily a bad thing if you do it intentionally but jumping too much is actually bad since your arc is predictable and especially experienced hitscan players will punish you for that. You also walk a lot in straight lines, making your movement quite predictable when you're not blinking. Try to utilize crouching and ADAD strafing more, especially in 1v1 situations. Your aim could also use some training. Pulse bomb sticks were quite on point though, so keep that up!
Couple of things I noticed when watching:

* target priority - a number of times you were focusing more on the other heroes, when there was a Mercy right next to them. Mercy should be the priority over others
* recall management - you seem to recall unnecessarily, many times when you had almost full hp. Recall should be used to escape a bad situation, not just after a fight, you can heal up through heath packs. Remember on escort levels, the payload heals you as well
* melee. I also main Tracer and I've started to incorporate melee-ing more frequently to secure some kills, sometimes it can be the difference maker for low hp targets
At :20 you randomly leave a low health enemy DVA. Just seemed like a very strange decision. Even just getting her out of mech and staggering her or making her slowly get it back again would have been great. Instead you blinked away toward nothing.

Either unload your entire clip every time you fire, or reload manually once in a while. You kept firing a burst and then leaving like 4 shots in your clip and then waiting to reload until you want to start firing again.
thanks for your time
Ok
I had a lot of good advice thanks a lot. I work on my aim, dash with aim and bombing.
What's the best target is not dead

unload full clip and blink.

Fire, reloading + blink and fire.

I'm  doing the 2nd stuff but not sure if it's the best thing to do.

How to know if you're making an impact with Lucio
It's difficult for me to tell if I'm actually doing well with Lucio. Are there key things to look for to know if I'm doing well? Or is it up to me to gauge what I'm doing well or not doing well?As a fellow lucio main I feel your pain.

Aside from the obvious healing medal, objective time etc - You can be making a huge impact in various other ways that kinda goes un-noticed insofar as stats go, like regularly booping red team off the point just in time to save an objective switch...or booping reaper away just as he was about to ult kill your team. Some of these things will put you ON FIRE though, if you are both consistent with them
and also dont diealot.

Speeding your deathball onto the payload from a flank also doesnt show up in stats...but without your boost they'd not make the surprise attack in time.


Following this thread for my own benefit now too.


Staying alive is your number one goal. If you limit your deaths, you are nearly certain to have a positive impact as Lucio. That means learning how to escape, learning to wall-ride well, and learning to fend off enemies who have you cornered. 

Edit: Another key for Lucio is an awareness of injured enemies trying to flee. Let's say you're playing KOTH, and your team gets the first two kills. The other four members of the enemy team starts to retreat. You've taken their Winston down to half and their healers are dead. He tries to jump out and your Zarya and Reaper are chasing him, but they can't catch up. Lucio speedboost FTW. That type of awareness is key -- when to engage and disengage with speed. 
Aside from getting a bunch of boops, there is nothing in the game that really credits Lucio for his work.

As a DPS, I can tell my Lucio's have an impact when:

- They know how to rescue a player by either jumping in to heal or providing speed to escape.

- They use their sound barriers at the right time.

- They remember that they are there to support the team, not for themselves. (Boops are nice, but if your team is too dead to follow up on the point, they are useless.

I think of Lucio as an ambulance - he is the hero most capable of rescuing someone who either had a bad flank, got caught off guard, or is just getting snowballed in general. The better Lucio players I've had always seem to be there for the rescue, and that definitely makes an impact.

Sound barrier efficacy. Lucio has one of the best team fight ults in the game; when you drop the beat, your team should win.
I just want to add that if you are gold healing, you might wanna ask yourself if there is anything you can do to help your other healer. Lucio is super mobile and has good sustain, so it makes sense that he doesn't require that much help from another healer. Zen and Ana, on the other hand, sometimes require a bit of 'baby-sitting'. Sure, sometimes they will make a mistake and die for it, but make sure you are keeping an eye out for them and don't just assume that you having gold means they are just terrible.
Control the speed. If you control that well, you make an impact. If you then get some boops in that either saves your teammates or helps getting a kill you have even more impact.

For me, Lucio is all about controlling the speed.
Staying alive and sound barriers

Both Sombra and Lucio feel tough to gauge for me because they can be easily forgotten about in the heat of the match.

I'd say your usage of Amped up Heals and constant speed boosts make or break you. If you can save allies with either method you are making a positive impact.
If your Rein or other team member pushes up a little too far call them out on over extending and speed boost them out. I've actually been thanked several times for saving a low hp hero by speed bossting them out of danger than keeping them in danger with a little healing.
I know many have already responded with some very well thought out answers, but I thought I might be able to contribute a little as well. Lucio is by far my favorite support class, and the reasons for that are, well, long. And I feel like you've basically hit the nail on the head with your description of the one major issue that I think all Lucio players face. 

It's easy to think you did a good job when your team is winning, but that can be very misleading... Just last night, I was playing in QP as junkrat and just getting skunked every time I made it to the point on Lijang Tower's Control Center. We were winning, but I was contributing basically *nothing*. We ended up losing the point and struggled to get it back. I was about to switch off Junkrat, but wanted to at least use my tire. Something clicked with me and one of the healers on my team, and I proceeded to contribute a LOT to the rest of the match, ending it with the win.

TLDR: **All** that to say this: *You* will know (or, at least, have a decent idea) if you are contributing or not. Lucio's heals obviously aren't fantastic--but they *can* be in the right situations. His speed boost is second to none, and the practiced use of it can win a game for your team. Juggling speed and heals with the rest of his kit has a **huge** potential for positive impact, even if it goes mostly unnoticed by the rest of your team. The *good* players--or maybe just the ones who are very familiar with Lucio--will recognize your impact as well.
Objective time and offensive assists are excellent key indicators of a great Lucio. 
Personally, I think your own judgment is the best indicator of whether you're making an impact with Lucio or not. Sure you can look at some stats like offensive/defensive assists and healing, but things like speed boosting your team at the right moments and booping key enemies at the right times aren't going to show up in the stats and I feel that those matter a lot more than anything else. 

Some things to pay attention to are:

- your own deaths: if you're dying a lot, you're not doing a good job. Lucio's kit is really good for keeping himself alive
- teammate deaths: as a support, your job is to keep your teammates alive. Healing is part of this, but that key speed boost amp that got everyone out of the way of the D.Va bomb won't show up on stats
- boops: I don't mean environmental kills alone here. Maybe you booped the enemy ana around a corner so she couldn't heal that low-HP reaper and your team was able to finish him off. Maybe you booped the soldier down from high ground into your team who quickly killed him. Maybe you booped the enemy genji off point before he could touch to trigger overtime. There's *lots* of situations where a good boop will have a huge impact but won't necessarily get measured in your stats
In the current meta a good lucio can save the other supports on your team against a dive a fair amount of time, booping away a winston or genji that's harassing your zen can save a good amount of time before they die. Creating space around your team when they're being dived is a very important ability that can save teammates more often than they realise.
Generally, I like to look at my cognizance with the team. How well am I aware of enemies trying to kill my teammates? Who needs healing the most? Who needs a helping hand with securing kills or running away (whatever it is they need speedboost for), and most importantly: who needs to get back in on the action.

Lucio is super good for giving teams mobility. My top priorities aside from healing is making sure my team can move around with the given tools Lucio has.

**Edit:** I really want to emphasize how important it is to boop enemies away that your teammates either cannot kill, or refuse to move away from. I've had a ton of situations where a DPS on my team is super aggressive, so I push enemies back into their team (or just away) and it definitely deters people from continuing to go for the kill.
When you feel like you're hopped up on coke
A good Lucio absolutely orchestrates the game.  He's can either heal up and push the back lines, he can effectively kite 1+ enemies, he can disrupt ults with his boop.

I actually think that he's one of the easiest heroes to vote for at the end of the game if he's played well.  He is EVERYWHERE when he's played well.
Assuming you got the basics down, such as keeping your healers alive, helping your team chase down stragglers and using speed in critical moments to engage or disengage, such as running away from a genji ult.

What separates a good Lucio from a very good Lucio is knowing when to use his ultimate. I feel like knowing when to save for an enemy ultimate or knowing when to use it to secure a team fight is important. His ultimate is hard to get so you really need to use it wisely. Even one bad beat can throw the game.

Lots of good game sense is required for Lucio.
umm if your fellow support is dying a lot, it could mean you aren't protecting them well enough, obviously they could be feeding their ass off, but it's important to consider why they are dying. Could you help them with that pesky Genji or Tracer a little better?
Unfortunately, most Lucios I see are just players forced into playing support which is a shame since he is so fun. The easiest metric by far is how many frags you get. Lucio is a support with a surprising amount of burst damage and great mobility which can easily chase down targets. Any half decent player can passively amp heal.
As long as you're helping your team do shit better and faster: secure kills, not die to shit you can't heal through, taxi, annoying the absolute fuck out of snipers when called for, booping folks away from your co-healer, etc.. Then you're doing a good job, IMO.
One thing I find that good lucios do is protect their ana or zen or mercy.  Amping and booping enemies away or even just hitting a couple shots on the tracer to get her to fuck off is really key
I moved from plat to diamond when I changed my priorities with Lucio:

1) Amped Speed Boost
2) DPS
3) Boops
4) Healing

1) Is the reason you should be playing the character. Boost your Ana or Zen away from a Doomfist ult. Use it to chase down flankers with your teammates. Taxi slow characters back to the point if you have time. Etc. 

2) Lucio does good damage and can shoot when you are doing other things, so get good at aiming with his gun. A headshot from you means McCree can kill his target with one bodyshot. A bodyshot from you means he can kill with a single headshot. If you are landing shots then your soldier won't have to helix, you're tracer won't have to recall. Land those shots! 
Don't forget my personal annoyance as a former Roadhog main, which is booping me right after I hook someone on your team. I've seen good Lucios save their teammates from multiple one shots by messing with my aim and timing at the last moment.

Basically, those boops do more than you realize and should be used often.
> Aside from the obvious healing medal, objective time etc

Those are kind of misleading. If you have a Mercy or Ana on your team, having gold healing as Lucio is not necessarily a good thing (and possibly detrimental). If you look at Overbuff rankings for Lucio, the top players fall at the very bottom percentiles for healing. This is mainly because speed boost is much more important than healing. Not just for pushing through chokes, but for dodging shots and messing with the other teams accuracy.
Sombra would like a word
I can't disagree with that!
This is the best response here. I agree with you when saying that you need to be aware of how much you are contributing. I will take this into consideration next time I'm playing Lucio. Thank you!
> 1) Amped Speed Boost 2) DPS 3) Boops 4) Healing

Honestly, I think this is WAY over-simplifying Lucio's kit. I'd be worried about giving this advice without many caveats as each scenario you'll find yourself in can require a vastly different approach. 

Instead of focusing on the specific abilities of Lucio, I'd say a better rule of thumb would be to focus on your *goals* as Lucio.

* keeping your hurt teammates alive is the most important goal, regardless of speed's importance. But exactly like I said above, there are caveats... Don't chase a friendly too far to save them, don't sacrifice other members of your team to save someone, don't put yourself at risk unless doing so is very very important, don't try to save someone with heals who is going to die regardless when there are other, more important things to do.
* focus on repositioning yourself and your teammates. This is from spawn, this is mid fight, this is to save your life and your teammate's lives, this is to ensure kills. 
* focus on doing damage. But don't over-extend, don't put yourself at too much risk unless it's worth it. Don't do so if your teammates need heals. This might be a larger priority than being a taxi--or it might not--all depending on the specific scenario you might be in.

Who is dead and who is alive and where they are positioned changes all of Lucios priorities from engagement to engagement. Learning the priorities of your desired outcome is more important IMO than which aspects of Lucio's play to focus on. I realize the difference in the two is small, but I think the distinction is rather important.

Sorry for run-on sentences and their illiterate fragment children. Need coffee. ;D
The "gold healing on lucio being a bad thing" idea is wrong. It's okay to have gold healing as lucio, sometimes its unavoidable like if you fight all the time on a objective. I'm a 3.7k lucio main and my rule of thumb is, if you are on the objective it's best to amp heal. And sometimes you just live a long time through prolonged fights and end up healing more then mercy. 

The idea of it being bad when lucio has gold healing died with his rework. 
Is there a general rule as to when you should use the speed boost? Is the healing important while pushing as well since the team's likely to take damage? Not sure when you should start/stop the speed boost.
Sombra can go to hell
I honestly wouldn't worry too much with *needing* to be aware of how much you're contributing, but rather, focus on the moment to moment engagements to get the most out of your kit--and then being satisfied (or not) with your overall contribution. If your team won the engagement, and you were engaged in every part of it, know that not only did you contribute to it, but your contribution was probably *integral* to its outcome. This won't be true for every engagement, of course, but for many it will.

Lucio is probably the most underestimated hero *in the game*. I think this is due to the very issue for which this thread was created. Ignorant players (from both teams, honestly) will ignore you regularly. It is our jobs--and by "our," I of course mean, "those of us who've seen the glorious and furious light of Lucio's badassitude"--to teach them. 

;)
I only really play lucio on koth maps,but i pretty much play him exclusively on koth,this ^ is very much my mindset when playing him.

Also i feel like playing peel and using boops to save teammates is such a huge thing you can do as lucio,especially for your other support,im always looking out for where a friendly ana or zen is playing from so i can go save them if they get get dived or find themselves in a tight spot. 
I don't think it's a bad thing, but it shouldn't be something you strive for. If it happens, it happens, but I wouldn't say gold healing is a metric with which Lucio's should measure their effectiveness, which is why I said it was misleading. Your primary healer should generally have a gold healing, although sometimes it can be difficult with Zen as his healing is pretty lackluster outside of trans.
I don't play much Lucio, but this is thinking about it backwards IMO. Speed boost should be the default. The question should be "Is there a general rule when you should use heal?" That is much easier to answer. You should generally only heal if your other support is low on health or your entire team is low only health. Even then, healing without amp it up is pretty useless and the extra mobility given by speed boost may get your team to safety. There are of course some exceptions (such as if you can save a critical DPS player or if you are the only healer alive), but more often that not, speed boost is going to help more than the extra 10hp/s of heal (or whatever it is).
Boost when:

* You have numbers advantage and want to snowball
* You want to kite enemy ult (if enemy Trance or speed were used before you)
* You need to speed through choke with team to reposition
* You need to disengage because of too many lost members (though it might be easier to just die depending on how far you need to run back)
* You need to get a team member to safety but your (amped)heals won't keep them alive
* After Beat to push

Probably a billion more, but those are just guidelines.
Speed and heals are two sides of one Jamaican DJ face'd coin. There's no exact rule of thumb when it comes to each ability's use, but there are general practices you can utilize to learn the nuances of the other "what if" and "if/then" situations. I actually wrote a guide for Lucio that r/OverwatchUniversity was kind enough to feature on their [Guides & Resources](https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/wiki/guides) page.

If you are interested in the read, [here is the guide](https://redd.it/68u0cp).

The following is a cut/paste of the portion where I talk about the importance of crossfading (that is, switching between heals and speed boost).

> * Learn to crossfade often, but consciously. Don't just spam back and forth between them, use each deliberately depending on what you need. I'm not saying try to master Stanky's level of crossfade micromanagement, but switching to speed for a split second as you prepare to bunny hop off the cart can give you a huge boost to mobility that will throw your enemies' aim off. Periodically switching during team fights can also greatly assist your teammates in their engagements.
> * More on that last point: There is an ebb and flow to most fights. Each player and team seems to pulse in and out of offensive and defensive tactics depending on what is going on at that exact moment. If roadhog misses his hook, the engagement changes. If he *makes* the hook, the engagement changes. Mastering these little micro battles as the supporting Lucio can mean the difference between winning and losing a teamfight. Almost never is *only healing* or *only speed boosting* the best thing for any fight, so play around with how your crossfading and positioning can control the pace and flow of a fight.
Frankly, it depends on how competent your other main healer is. At high level play, an Ana or Mercy should be able to keep people topped. That's why you see good lucios (like DSPStanky) constantly swap from speed to heals and back rapidly to get the best of both worlds, and to be harder to hit. I'd say using healing if your team is getting lower, your other healer has died, or if you need to quickly top people off (assumig your other healer knows what they're doing.)
If your two healers are Zen and Lucio, I would say both of you are working together as the "primary" healer, since neither of you have very aggressive healing.  
I agree with this. I'd rather have speed boost up 90% of the time and heals when necessary than have speed boost randomly pop up mid-combat when I'm not expecting it. 
Does the passive speed boost do much? I get the point of amped speed, but not so much the normal one. 
Except that Lúcio is Brazilian, not Jamaican.
He's not Jamaican lmao
Nice, thanks for the guide! I'll use speedboost more now rather than have healing on 24/7 LOL

Only sad thing is i'll charge up my ult more slowly. Though it shouldn't be much I think
I see, so there's supposed to be *another* healer..

At my quick play level we're quite lucky to get 1 sometimes
Yes. It increases the teams speed by 30%, making your team much harder to hit as strafing speeds increase. So along with the obvious positioning advantages, you're essentially also healing your team before they even take damage. 

Also if you speed an ulting soldier/roadhog/nano rein, it's much easier for them to get good angles and SHRED the other team.
Well not with THAT attitude 
Honestly, in QP, play whatever you want. QP is to play whoever/however you want while trying to win. Comp is a different story.

Reflexive aiming
So I was practicing some hitscan with McCree the other day in the practice range and and and I noticed something kinda strange.

I was practicing mostly on the moving bots.Whenever I aimed a shot at a bot in motion, there's a short window (like really just an instant) where it feels "right" to shoot. There's just a moment where I kinda instinctive click and the shot lands. 

I notice if I try to focus on that "feeling" my aim messed up more, I usually end up being too late. Is this "reflexive" aiming of shooting just when you have that feeling a valid strategy? Or is it bad muscle memory because I don't want to practice bad habits.Reflexive aiming is the type if aim you SHOULD use whe playing hitscan. That is why you should allways have something distracting you when doing your aim drills (like complex music, twitch stream, etc.), so you don't put your full attention on your aim. It forces you to use your muscle memory for aiming instead of your active mind. Later in game you have to rely on that muscle memory, so you can put more attention on what happens in the game (preventing tunnel vision). 
Never thought about doing those! I had quite the problem whenever I'm in a competitive match where I notice my aim is kinda off compared to when I practice flick shots with bots. 

Thanks a lot for the tip!
Reflexive and instictive is all there is. Instictive is used when you understand a heros kit and limitations.

Example. Tracer will bait flash. You instead hold it and use it post blink.

Reactive. Winston dives your team and you follow his stafe spam after landing.

Prediction and reaction are both one in the same both used subconciously.

Feel like your not hitting your targets? Your lost in the battle. Slow down. Look at the comp and its limitations. And shoot.

Peeling for supports as a tank?
Been playing more tanks this season and generally though there's a DPS like McCree or a Lucio on our team they don't always seem to know how to peel. 

So I'm curious what I can do for when Tracer or some other flanker (or for some reason a random McCree that keeps ending up behind us and flashbang+FTHing our Mercy) gets to our supports and no one is there to help. It's tough especially because I usually will be playing main tanks and trying to front line and if supports don't push up towards me I'm conceding ground/don't have whoever's harassing them in hammer distance or tickle gun distance.

Depends what tank you're playing. D.Va's pretty good at it, because Boosters+melee is basically a budget Lucio boop. You get similar distance out of it. It's best for getting rid of Winston in your backline since it boops him out of his bug zapper's range half the time.
I mentioned I was playing main tanks. So mostly Rein, and occasionally Winston. I think D.Va works great, I just can't personally stay in mech very long unless I'm being pocketed because I guess I can't hit M2 very well?
Oh, my bad. I must have glossed over that part. As Rein I don't think there's much you *should* be doing since his attention should always be focused on the front lines. As for Winston, I think you should focus on killing their backline faster than they can kill yours. If that's an issue then staying with the supports isn't bad *per se*, but you'll kill a lot less things and mainly just act as a deterrent for Genjis/Tracers. Other Winstons probably won't be all too bothered by your bug zapper when they dive in, though.

As for the D.Va thing, don't bite off more than you can chew. Dive comp works because D.Va and Winston function together exceptionally well. If you have a different main tank though don't be afraid to push in slow and steady like a deathball. Then, when a fight breaks out you can supplement the damage as well as just be a general nuisance with Matrix as well as Boosters+melee. Just don't go too deep as even D.Va dies in a fraction of a second when focused down hard.
Dva's critbox is gigantic (the whole window of the mech), and she can get melted in 2 seconds if the enemy team focus fires her. IDK exactly how you're playing her but if I had to take a guess, you're trying to play her like Rein or Winston at times and it doesn't work. She has neither a 2000hp to cover herself completely while moving forward, nor a 600hp shield to cover herself from all directions while she dives. 

Her matrix is an amazing ability (it is great for protecting people being harassed by flankers) but it has it's limitations. It actually doesn't protect her as much as it would seem. As long as you have enemies shooting at you from more than one angle you're taking damage from one of them at least. Play around cover (behind rein's shield if there's one) and be careful with the risks you take.

Edit:I don't play neither rein nor winston too much so I can't offer you advice on how to peel as them (aside from the obvious hammer or electrocute them if they get close to you. With winston, jumping to get to your backline fast shouldn't be a problem. With Rein, I think you said exactly what I think, nothing really you can do in most cases unless the flanker gets into hammer range.
I know it's not my job when playing Rein, but if no one else is doing anything and we could win if our supports weren't being focused so hard I'd love it if there was a tip for what to do. Like when I play support I try my best to move towards my team instead of backing up away from them specifically to have tanks and other teammates engage. 
I'll be honest, I have no idea how to play Dva. I get it from play I've seen and tips I've read, but I play her so little that it's just like not something I can do. Plus I don't really want to play her. 


Sensitivity problems
I've been playing overwatch since release and I have not found a comfortable sensitivity to play on.My mouse is 1200 dpi and I primarily play genji and soldier.

For those of you that will say "Stick to one sensitivity", I have tried but my aim is still horrid after 1+ years of playing 

My ingame sensitivity varies from 3-5.5Try different mouse and or mouse pad. A general rule of thumb is to move your mouse from one side to another completing a full 360 turn. That way you can learn your muscle memory for half a pad swipe being a 180 and two swipes for a 360.

I play 800/4.8 and 5.8 on Genji. It should be 5 and 6 respectively but I don't have the room on my desk to be able to use every cm of my mouse pad. Give it at least a week on a few hours a day to adjust to a new sensitivity and if still doesn't feel right look into changing your mouse or pad. 
I changed my sensitivity probably 20 times a day for the past couple of months (Which is probably bad since you have to adjust to it). Just recently found something that I liked, you just have to keep messing with it.
are you me. try change the way you sit or your angle to the desk. google rapha quake. he sits 45 degrees to desk. cypher also has an interesting position. after trying so many sensitivities mice and positions im starting to finaly get it. (gold boarder 2 stars).

What do you guys think of showing % grouped up in competitive if we wish?
Hi Overwatch University!

Last season, I made it up to GM playing support, mainly Mercy. As many fellow support players can attest to, often when a match is going poorly, you'll get the blame. I have had so many instances of people running off dying alone, yelling at me, then yelling at me when they're not included in my 3-man rez and then proceed to accuse me of being boosted to my rank.

This is 100% not true. Since hitting Masters mid-season, I've slowly climbed in solo queue as all my friends were plat/Diamond. I am absolutely sick of people yelling at me for being boosted by a Pharah main or something.

Therefore here is my question - what do you think of having a stat listed near our SR indicating the percentage of time spent grouped up with other people in competitive? This would probably be something we can choose to hide if we wish, especially for those with a bunch of friends who spend most of the time grouped up. It may seem like a waste for some, but it would be such a great boost for enjoyment of games for me personally.

Thanks for reading!I think it's an interesting idea, certainly as someone who generally starts solo queue and invites people I like it would be a good stat to see.

However, morons will be morons. You'll still get shit from idiots and no extra evidence will do anything about it unfortunately.
I'd like a stat for people who spend time attacking enemy spawn on defence from the start. Then I'd like blizzard to ban them all.
It simply wouldn't work for too much of the cast. Well I'll say I can't see it working, or being able to interpret anything meaningful from it. Tanks and Support would have incredibly high numbers, and that's it. DPS have to extend, Defense play off angles. It seems like something only a support or tank could use to show that they felt they weren't being properly utilized, whether that's true or not. 

Edit: 100% misunderstood the post lol

Edit 2: Still with this I feel it would just be used to flame, and those with it hidden would be flamed for "hiding that they're boosted"
Protip: If you know the enemy Zarya has grav, don't tell your team. They might split up to avoid grav and die to other DPS ults.
I think they need better chevrons. I think they might as well include the thing you see in pro games where it constantly shows who is alive and who is dead, at least for your team. Then maybe you could have Chevrons float on your screen for the direction of your teammates, and if you get too far, they disappear or something.
More info is always nice but it won't solve the issue. Toxic people will always find something to blame you for. 
it´s no good to give credibility and assurances to the toxic player who thinks that way... it´s like negotiating with terrorists... if they want to blame someone, they´ll find another excuse

Morons will be morons... Sadly true :(
Hehe sorry about the confusion! 
Oops I think you may have misunderstood my post.. My bad, it's poorly explained.

I don't mean grouping up during thr match, I mean grouping up and queuing with friends (e.g. Duo queuing).

People sometimes blame me out of the blue for the loss and harass me complaining that I've been boosted to higher sr than I deserve because I duo queued with a good dps player or something.

Sorry about the confusion :-) 
Oops I think you may have misunderstood my post.. My bad, it's poorly explained.

I don't mean grouping up during thr match, I mean grouping up and queuing with friends (e.g. Duo queuing).

People sometimes blame me out of the blue for the loss and harass me complaining that I've been boosted to higher sr than I deserve because I duo queued with a good dps player or something.

Sorry about the confusion :-)

Copy paste because I'm lazy
No wonder you're a good Mercy. You actually have a good attitude. Can't stand the Mercy insta-locks that just want to complain about DPS when we're not winning.
Yeah I was really surprised to hear someone on my team say they were pleasantly surprised with me, as a lot of the mercy players he's met were "pretty mean". Bad apples wherever you go I guess :-) best of luck to you! 
I feel like it just comes with the character. People go her because they feel like they need enough healing, not because they want to play her. 

[Quicktip]: Supports, don't heal Sombra so much.
Sombra's ult EMP is extremely useful, and extremely versatile. But Sombra's main means of charging it is via using hacked healthpacks. So what Sombra will often do is soak a bit of damage, pull out, and then heal that damage at a hacked pack for massive ultcharge.

I know it is basic healer nature to heal anything and everything that is hurt (even if it is just 5 damage, because that yellow triangle is so annoying to see). But often that healing is actually hurting Sombra's work.

Generally, unless Sombra is in immediate danger, avoid healing her; she can typically take care of herself, focus on your other teammates.

If Sombra is safe and does not have ult, particularly avoid healing her; if Sombra does not have ult and you *do* have ult, *really* avoid healing her.And don't fucking bubble me when I'm invisible
I generally heal Sombras who are critical during a scrum on point. I also try to use her healthpacks as much as possible, so hopefully that balances out.

Also, Tracers and Genjis who come back to me for heals and don't jump/blink around everywhere (especially if I'm playing Ana) are my favorite. If they can take care of themselves with healthpacks, that's great too, but it's nice to get a little extra ult charge.
Does sombra's ult charge based on using the health pack or the amount of heals from the health pack? Do you get more ult charge from megas?
It's an interesting subject to be sure. As a healer you can't see whether Sombra has a translocator on a healthpack at the moment and is about to jump away, or if she is about to die.

&nbsp;

The same thing is true for, for example, Mei. I transitioned from Sombra to Mei myself, and every healer so far has (thankfully) insisted on healing me. This is fantastic as it keeps me alive, but a big part of Mei's kit, like Sombra's, is building ult charge through self healing.

&nbsp;

Then again, your healers also build their own ults by healing *you*... So it's not black and white. I decided to rely on the judgment of my healers. Most of them are really good at keeping you alive. Don't tell them not to do that.
I feel the same way when I play tracer. While it's not that I'm charging ult, it's just that I don't need the heals and I'd much prefer you keep our tanks and other DPS alive. Heal prioritization is almost as important as target prioritization.  
Also, for you Mercys out there: healing or damage boosting a Sombra while stealthed makes her stealth pointless. The enemy can see your beam ending in open space, so they know exactly where Sombra is.  Just...don't, please.
My fav Mercy player and me are having a running gag about stealing each others ult. =)
I generally would request the Mercy, Zen, Ana, and/or Lucio on my team to only heal me enough to survive to my health pack (or the health pack I hacked for the team to use) if I'm being chased down and in critical health.
This isn't a problem if you just put your translocator right on your hacked healthkit, and go stealth in to harass their backline. It's more important to not heal the tanks that are only taking damage to charge EMP by taking the mega.
Also, please stop healing if the fight is over and the enemy is regrouping to push. There's no threat and Sombra can shut down an entire push with just EMP.
I will always ask Sombra if she's okay before I heal her. She's doing her thing helping the team set up for a fight and slowing her down slows the team down.
Sombra's I play with are never around me to heal to begin with! lolol 
As a Zarya main, I can forgive other Zarya's doing this..

At a distance, it is surprisingly difficult to see the difference between regular sombra and invisible sombra, if zarya sees a miscellaneous teammate in the middle of the enemy team often her first instinct is to bubble them before they get brutally beat to death. 

It certainly is a bad habit and something Zarya should avoid, but as long as she doesn't make a habit out of it I can forgive her
not anymore you're not :p
Oh god, those ADHD Genjis who can't stop double-jumping for even half a second while still spamming "i need healing" in front of their poor Ana...   
Love that you said scrum hehe
Amount of heals from the healthpack~
As a part-time healer main though, Tracer is easy to top off in about a second flat. Unless my current heal target is critical or actively taking damage, it's easy enough to get her up to full.
I usually play Ana and typically keep my focus on the tanks and people around them - if Tracer/Genji happens to be in my field of view I'll throw heals to them but otherwise I expect them to be using health packs

maybe that's just me
I mostly ignore Tracer (unless shes clearly in a rough spot and down rewind) unless I'm playing Zen; it's so easy to throw an orb on her that if no one else needs it there's no reason not to.
Also to add, Zarya, please don't bubble me when I'm going in stealth.
The beam becomes invisible [link] (https://gfycat.com/DefiantRareEstuarinecrocodile) 
Pretty sure the beam doesn't show up for the enemy if you target an invisible Sombra. Like 99% sure.
Lucio is passive healing so Lucio can't do anything about healing you.
this, sombra isnt in LOS with support most of the times to begin with.
I know! Like seriously, it's easier to hit them while they're jumping if they're further away. It's really hard to hit a slow-firing shot on a close-up small-model hero who's moving around, because the angular velocity of the movement is so high. (I play on console, so that adds another layer of difficulty to those close-up shots.) I sometimes am forced to scope in from like 3 feet away and just wait for him to bounce through my scope view. Or just waste my nade on him, which sucks because then it's inevitably on cooldown later when I need it.

Edited to add: I once played as Mercy in QP with a Genji who was all "Mercy, I need heals, coming back to you in a sec... okay I'm on the ledge just behind you, you can turn around and heal me from there", and it was so so wonderful. I looked up his career profile and saw that his most-played hero in comp was Mercy, and it all made sense.
Honestly, i dont mind double jumping genjis that much. Puts them in a predictable travel pattern after the jump for better or for worse.
literally me
? I've missed the joke. 
Thanks!
Yeah that's fine. Mostly, though, I like playing tracer because of the self-sufficiency. So focus on baby-sitting those tanks. 
As a Tracer, nothing rustles my jimmies more than when a Mercy dives into the chaos I'm causing to heal me. Instead of being able to blink away at a moments notice, I now have to worry about her safety and desperately try to keep her alive as she gets focused into oblivion :( 
This is wrong. You should be (pardon the pun) actively healing Genji and to some extent Tracer. That's because Genji isn't a horizontal flanker but rather a vertical flanker who will often LoS you as an Ana player. If it's an accuracy issue you need to work on that. Even with double flanker on your team your accuracy should be above 70% to justify playing Ana. For reference, on a tank heavy team I will often go to ~85-90 accuracy whereas on a DPS heavy team I will drop to 70-75%. Even in Masters Ana usually has at least 70% acc with DPS comp. 

Tracer has more ability to kite and use packs but she sometimes requires healing as well. Just one shot on Tracer can swing a huge headlight. 

S3-6 GM flex dps/support with 200 hours on Genji and 100 hours on Ana (and 300 hours McCree).

   
But the soap bubble is hilarious!
From that distance, the last part of it becomes invisible, sure. However, 2 problems:

It becomes invisible at the halfway point. This means that I can look at that, and almost instantly still know exactly where Sombra is - she's the same distance from the end of the beam, along a straight line.

Second thing, it becomes invisible at the halfway point, so from that distance (which I'm assuming is pretty close to max beam range, yes?) if Mercy were behind a wall, she could heal Sombra with no enemy being the wiser for a second or 2 *if and only if* Sombra stands still while stealthed, or moves back around the corner with Mercy, which would be a waste of her stealth. The second she starts moving farther away, the beam starts becoming visible again beyond the wall edge, and/or Sombra moves out of range anyway. Stealth being on a fairly long CD makes it very undesirable to stand cloaked in a doorway for a few seconds.

TL;DR It still reveals your location in all but the most specific of situations, in which 99% of the time you shouldn't be using your cloak as Sombra anyway. Just TL over for heals if you need them and have ult, or back to your health pack if you don't currently have ult.

[Edit:] Looked again, it's about 1/3 of the way. Still an easy guess that there's a Sombra cloaked in a straight line from Mercy, and about where she is.
The video above shows exactly that - an enemy watching a Mercy heal beam a Sombra in a custom match/skirmish. You can clearly see the beam for about 1/3 of the distance.
He can speed her up to get to the health pack faster. I tend to do that for most classes anyway
When that happens with a Genji, try firing unscoped. Your shots are quick projectiles when unscoped so it should be easier to hit.
Wait he was typing in chat? Or was this through comms?
No joke, just a rugby fan
Tell the Mercy firmly "I DON'T NEED HEALING"
It's not your responsibility to keep Mercy alive. Mercy herself understands the juncture points of which she can dive in and heal you, I.e. during a winning teamfight or if you hit the maximal range of her beam. Trying to keep a Mercy alive with Tracer is like trying to keep alive a fish with a plastic bag. It's eventually gonna die.  Why waste all of your abilities to save a feeding Mercy? Let her die. Don't ascribe any sort of unconscious moral qualities to this game. There's no ethical imperative that says that you must keep your healers alive at all costs. There is however, a cost to throwing the game by trying to do a role your hero is not designed to do. 
Oh god that is my same feeling when playing Winston!

Like, I appreciate your desire to help, Mercy, but nowhere I am going is safe for you! My own presence there is a carefully calculated risk; I know what I am doing, and I will dive back to you before I die, so please just stay safe and don't follow me ;_;

When mercy starts getting it in her head that she needs to follow me into danger, it sucks because I feel forced to play overly cautiously, unable to do the dives I should be taking.
must be nice to have competent DPS xD that's all I can say
Don't understand why you're being down voted 🤔but yeah I'd like to add that if you're having trouble quickscoping squishies play some ana paintball to hone in your aim. That alone got me from 65-75 accuracy to 70-85% accuracy as ana
In the middle of a fight it's unlikely that someone will notice that. 

Mercy players need to know their beam won't reveal a cloaked Sombra and that it will go invisible. It's more useful to have a visible Sombra at full health than an invisible one running away from the fight. 

Well that sucks. I'll keep that in mind, thanks!

Have a good day.
She should be teleporting or inviz to her health pack... Lucio's speed shouldn't help much. 
naa when it happens just ignore them. they are nothing to me,
I'm aware, but when he's jumping around right in front of me and I'm near other teammates, it's really easy for me to hit someone else by accident. I'm saying that sometimes I resort to scoping in and waiting or using my nade because I _can't_ hit him unscoped reliably on console when he's bouncing around all over my screen. 
Voice comms. I'm on console, so no text chat. 
Though you were a software dev
Ah, okay. Seems like an appropriate usage, right? Two teams approach each other in formation and then scramble over the objective/ball.
>let her die

She just wanted to help! ;_; 
Well. Low elo things.. when I'm mercying, pretty much any winston I find myself matched with will spam 'I need healing' from the beginning of the match, and throw a shitfit if they're not being constantly tailed & topped up throughout. I've got 4 others to keep alive winston, if you'd mind not overextending quite as much..
Hm. If she can GA to you at the peak of a jump she can hover quite a ways above the fight make a huge impact tethered to a Winston. I've had quite a number of matches as Mercy where the Winston dives the team then keeps jumping straight into the air which kept me well out of danger. Of course you need your other 4 team members to engage at the same time...
Depends on the Winston and how he's jumping. If he's jumping away from the main fight and fragging out and staggering the enemy team, its AMAZING to keep him alive + damage boost. 


Nice meme. Keep that mentality and you'll stay where you are.  
This subreddit 5-6 months ago was about committed players trying to get better mechanically, positionally and game sense wise. 

What changed? 

There was an influx from /r/Overwatch some months ago where the sub got super popular. 

Now it's a bunch of plats giving horrible advice to each other, encouraging the so-called "victim" support main mentality, and just in general not understanding the game and its theory.   

Don't bother with this sub anymore except for VoD reviews from high elo players. Just use /r/CompeitiveOverwatch for anything else. 
If people aren't looking for Mercy's beams during a fight to see her and/or who she's healing, there might be a problem. 

As for Sombra at full health, unless it's a critical situation or she already has EMP ready, Sombra should be using hacked health packs to build EMP. During combat situations Mercy will usually have higher priority targets, and Sombra will have TL on a hacked pack so she can vanish back to it. Outside of combat, it's not necessary to heal her immediately, so she can still walk back.
She **should** be yes, but if she's in trouble (ie critical) those abilities *might* be on cooldown (even though they're short I know) 1 second of speed could be the difference
ah i gotchu
I honestly think most low tier winstons don't realize he can easily jump to megas around the map 
I'm mainly refering when I winston split off to assassinate a single enemy target, particularly in midst of the enemy team; it means going deep alone behind the enemy team, and eventually drawing a lot of enemy aggro,- If mercy tries to GA to me during this, it is very likely GA will bring her across half the enemy's direct sightlines, to then be behind or above the enemy; in most cases there, she dies.

Honestly, at this point if I am in comp and i feel like our mercy will be doing this a bit, I will actively warn her, "be careful not to follow me too much, I will be diving into dangerous situations"
riiight, because me having a more-hopeful attitude will somehow make the matchmaker find me teammates who don't try to 1v6 the enemy team or somehow make my shots able to keep a DPS getting focused alive regardless of incoming damage

you're totally right, great advice
Yeah this sub used to be useful when I was play and below but now I've had to find pro and t500 players and coaches for stuff past diamond. Oh well
And also, you can still win independent of those situations. Feeders will always be feeders. Chances are, if you're in low elo, the enemy team has feeders as well. Stop trying to blame everything on your team. 
Oh please. I soloqed on my Ana one trick for like a week before I got to Diamond, and then for like a month before I got to GM. It honestly is just about aim and positioning. My WR on Ana isn't even that high. I'm at 55% and yet the MM system loves me. I'm often the only person on fire during a push. 

Ana is easy. Just git gud
yeah it's unfortunate but that's how it is. everyone has theories about the game, doesn't mean you're all right. 
No, she isn't. If you can easily perform well on Ana, that's great, you have some skill. But she's a very high skill hero, and should be treated as such.
She's not a difficult hero to play if you come from a background of playing FPS games, mechanically. The positioning isn't difficult to figure out if you play McCree either.



Suggested Hero
I think it could be incredibly useful to have win % along with the number of hours played - for the top 5 heroes in that dropdown that gets shown when you hover over a teammates / enemy.

I would like a new section - where for each team member - they also put up a suggested hero - the machine should be able to figure out which players should play which heroes for the match to be a balanced game. 

Another interesting information that the system could provide is - based on the current hero selection of your team and their team provide a win probability chance for a game ?  This way people could figure out strategies before as to which heroes they should play . 

What do you guys think about this idea ?I hope you don't take offense at this, but that is an absolutely terrible idea. Anyone who chooses a hero that shows as below 55% will get flamed by their allies. This would do nothing but increase toxicity of an already toxic community.
The game is actually telling you what your comp is lacking.
That is a valid point. What if we show suggested heroes and each time you change your own hero it also shows win probability ? This way - when you pick hero's you will pick that final dps knowing well ahead that your win probability is 10% when you pick that hanzo or widow or 65% when you are an incredible widow  ?
The game should do exactly nothing to influence your hero picks. If my past performance as Soldier is low, but my team needs a hitscan, should I pick Soldier or should I debate with them about who everyone should shuffle to?  

The devs have been clear from the outset that they want people to swap to heroes and rotate throughout the match. What you're proposing is going to hinder that swapping. I already know which heroes I play well with, and I would second-guess swapping to what the team needs if the game tells me I have a 40% win rate with that hero (even if the circumstances would give me a 60% win rate with that hero).

The game should not suggest heroes more than it already does. It tells everyone the same thing: you have too many snipers, no tanks, or no healers. Personalizing recommendations beyond that is a bad idea and undermines the stated goal of having players swap throughout the game to what the team needs. 

Target prioritization and flanking
I have a general idea of who my/my team's priority targets are but sometimes have trouble deciding if I see multiple targets at once or how much I should flank. I play a lot of Pharah and Soldier, so it's usually constructs first, followed by high threat characters or ones I counter like Junkrat as Pharah. Soldier I'm not quite as sure which DPS to target first (other than the general threats like Bastion or Symmetra) and I don't flank as much with him. This is overridden by healers - first Mercy, if she probably has ult or I want to ult or if I see an opportunity to take her out or another healer (Ana or Zen first before Lucio). Tanks last or shields if nothing else to do, unless Winston or Rein dives into my team. 

My problem sometimes is if they're all milling around but not super bunched up and say I see Sym, Junkrat and Reaper, I start shooting one. Then they get out of sight then another one gets into sight or I take some damage and have to pull back a little and then I can't seem to get anything done even when I try different angles. I know improving my aim will help but that's a continual work in progress. I try to call targets when I can, I probably need to start doing that more. 

I also have trouble sometimes with flanking, I know not to flank until my team is engaged but for example last night, I was Pharah on Anubis attack, a D.Va kept thwarting my flanks, but I think maybe I should have just stood my ground  a little longer since she wasn't immediately getting in my face and didn't have a pocket healer. However my team kept bunching up to approach through the left crypt, I opted not to so I could distract from the other side but then my team kept getting trampled by Junkrat and Symmetra - normally I would focus them but I don't want to fight them in a small space. Maybe I should have gone with my team anyway or we certainly could have tried something else (almost no one should probably fight Junkrat in a small space) but unfortunately I didn't recognize the problem in time, there was some other chaos in between just trying to regroup.  
 
So I'm wondering if anyone has any other tips or thoughts on target prioritization and when to flank vs not. Thanks in advance. Best advice is to do exactly what your doing. MOST kills can be closed out on by your tanks giving you the space to close them. If you have no space then you have your win condition. Make your tanks move up.

To do this in your game you described youll need to make the area denial picks back off. Flanking was the correct choice. Keep them away and your rein or whoever will follow. D.va wont be an issue stay very high up and be patient. Only get lower when your team has established a good portion of the point to fight on.
Thanks. I probably could have done a better job of proactively hunting down the Sym and Junkrat. I wish I had the recording but I spaced out and only recorded the defense portion. I've definitely had this problem before though where I spent too much time flanking and poking instead of getting a kill. 

What comp would you run against this?
My team was stumped on what to run against this comp on King's Row Defense: Orisa, Reinhardt, Roadhog, Ana, McCree, and Sombra. What would you run against this? 

Edit: Thanks for all the responses! I'll definitely keep in mind all of these options the next time I encounter this!Me personally would be fine running a dive comp against it. I would prioritize targeting the sombra. However I could also see running a sombra as well on attack and just emp their shields. To break the comp id say kill Ana first 
Whoa, triple tank lol, dive with either a reaper or Sombra yourself, zen lucio 
dive
Rein+Zarya+Tracer+Junkrat+Lucio+Ana

No point trying to win the shield war but I dislike monkey vs triple tank so the barrier can be used to move your team around to high ground and such.

They lack a defensive ult, no Dva to eat grav or pulse bomb so deathball could work. JR and Tracer both combo well with grav and junkrat has a lot of places to bounce grenades around barriers on this map. They have a ton of CC so I wouldn't really want to go with a channeled ult for the grav combo. 


Has a good bit of defense against hog hooks as well between Zarya, Lucio, Ana, and junkrat(unreliable). 

Reaper + Lucio would shred them. Also add a d.va and the road is useless.
zen would shit on all fo this except the emp since enemy team has nothing to get the zen

def go with dva to block hog, cree, ana and orisa

lucio to speedboost past barriers

for the other tank i would go winston or zarya(with dva)

dps should be tracer/genji probably since soldier will get blocked by all those shields

if you kill the ana you should win


Mei wall one or two of the front tanks, while team collapses on those two in a quick 2v6, drop the wall and finish the 4v6. I like doing this with a doomfist and or a rein to pin them to my wall. 
That comp has next to no ranged offence, you just need to get around their shields. Bastion would probably be a good start there. Once shields are down, go to town with ranged heroes of your own. That comp also has next to no mobility nor lucio, so once you start picking them off the extended walk of shame will cause a wipe on first point & hurt them bad till the end unless they switch up.
Dive with winson/dva + genji/tracer
+ reaper (allways good against triple tank), mabe run a sombra yourself to break the shiels
1. Kill the ana
2. Kill the rest of them
3. Dance emote on their corpses

It's been said but post up with a rein and a bastion while you send flankers behind. Bastion will melt shields, flankers will cause them to turn around. 

Should melt them. Plus it looked like they only had 1 healer so take her our first, the rest would follow. 
Winston Hanzo Reaper Dva Lucio Ana is what I think would work. 
It's a very defensive comp with the two shields/three tanks/Ana as healer.  

**Bastion** could be very strong at burning down shields.  A simple Bastion-Orisa might be a good base.  They really have only Sombra who can flank effectively.

**Symmetra** can shoot orbs through the shields.

**Sombra** can EMP everything, taking down the shields.

Finally there's the option of spreading out, surrounding, and flanking them.  S:76, McCree, Widow, Pharah(has to stay in cover though), Genji, Hanzo---all can work.

You'll notice who I didn't include on this list:  Zen, Lucio, or Ana.  Even Mercy I'd only run with either a Bastion (damage boost).  This is where the "helling is b3st" dogma really bites you in the ass.

As others have said, hybrid dive with Reaper and/or Sombra.
Im gonna use this 😏
Road hog would shit on Winston if you went dive. 

Instead just try the traditional shield breaking method with a Soldier, Junk, Mercy core build.
Based on the map and the fact you're attacking, a Widow or Hanzo would be solid picks.

Also, considering the spawn advantage for attackers, as soon as you get a pick, or even a trade, it might be worthwhile making the push but assess the situation first.

As one of the other users mentioned as long as you get a pick on the Ana first, you should be golden, because as much as Sombra plays support, the defenders would only be able to utilise 4 health packs around them: statue mini, hotel mini, high ground flank mini, main building mega. 

This will break them apart and easy pickings for you, especially considering there's no Mercy to resurrect.

Comp wise, dive, triple tank, or even triple DPS would work. Play your best heroes.

Hope this helps.

Edit: words and stuff

In need of a detailed guide to taking down an opponent's PharMercy duo.
Looking back, I think I could easily say that most games where I face them, even despite having a Zen and Hit Scans some times, I would end up losing.

What are the secrets to taking down this strong duo?The thing with overwatch is, that even if you make a counter pick, you can still get out-played from the character that you intend to counter. Take Mcree vs. Tracer for example. Mcree can oneshot a Tracer and he can counter her mobility with the flash, so he should have the upper hand. But a good Tracer will bait out his flash and will use quick blinks and spins (Mcree players struggle at doing 180s) to kill him.

Same with pharmercy. On paper a zen and a Soldier (mabe add a dva) should be able to deal with the duo and they will if the soldier has very good tracking and/or the zen is good at shooting his projectiles on fast moving targets in the air. But if they pharmercy plays smart by avoiding los/flanking around and if the pharah is good on landing direct hits, your chances of taking the duo out before they wreck you is relatively small. 
by talking to your team and telling them to shoot them while you also shoot them at the same time. AKA focus fire. just having hitscan and zen isn't good enough, those hitscans and discord has to be coordinated.

if your team has a dva tell your dva on voice when the pharah is shooting your team so the dva can react with matrix.

pharmercy will easily pick off solo targets because it's a 2v1, by notifying your team of the pharmercy while shes trying to kill a solo target you turn a 2v1 into a 2v4-5

Call outs. 

If that fails I ignore pharmercy and just shoot at the rest of their team as they don't have a primary healer. Once mercy notices her tanks are dying I pop off pharah. 
There are no secrets. It's a 6vs6 game like any other.  
You don't even need to switch to counters at first, make them prove they can be effective against your comp. Don't go out of your way to "deal with them". They are investing enormous team resorces to be up in the air, they must prove they can be effective. If your team is tough enough to withstand some rockets you can take the fight on the ground to the remaining 4. Maybe the mercy will try to save that zen that is dying, maybe that's your opening to shoot at the exposed Pharah, it's all very situational.   
Bottom line is: if they can't kill anyone from your team, even if you can't delete them from the air, it's still good for your team, you can win the game.  
A Pharmercy can win one game, like any combo can, but don't assume any Pharmercy will dominate by default any game unless you "counter" it.  
What happens most of the time is that your team is getting mauled by the *entire* enemy team and the Pharah impact will be more *easy* for everyone to see. People will say "no one countered the Phara so we lost" but this is faulty oversemplification, your team would probably have lost the game anyway if the Phara was a Reaper or another dps.  



Well i would say that having at least 3 heroes that can deal with pharmacy is the way to go, Soldier/Cree/Ana are imo the best at it. If youre escorting D.Va works great. As people already said Even if you have all possible option to deal with Pharmacy, its still a skill match-up. Pharah may be not as effective when countered, but she still can fairly reliably do 1:1 trades against those comps. 
Kill Mercy first especially with Mercy 2.0.
It might sound funny but..... avoid them. A pharmercy will rarely have objective time so most of the time I'll get a character that can put up a shield and push the objective. At this point, if the Pharah doesn't start closing in on you, keep pushing it because the objective will win you the match. Can't tell you how many times I've taken out a careless Pharah because she realized her being in the sky gives us one less body to worry about on the objective leading her to do a careless mistake and leaving her vulnerable. 
point and click
Go pharmercy and let your mercy shoot that ho down
Do you focus mercy or pharah as Zen?
Unless you have great aim and hit every shot, definitely focus mercy.

Mercy will just heal up most damage that pharah takes, so taking her out is key. Of course this means pharah effectively has 400 health now which is plenty of time to rocket poor nearly immobile Zen.
I think its situational. Mercy is the weak point of the duo, but she is also more difficult to hit. Pharah is more tanky with mercys beam attached, but hitbox and movement makes her the easier target and with discord you can negate her tankyness. With the mercy changes coming out, you shoud kill mercy first almost every time, because of the way she can rez people with her new kit. 
>I think its situational. Mercy is the weak point of the duo, but she is also more difficult to hit.

You find? I sometimes have trouble hitting the Pharah because her action is faster than my reaction, but the Mercy's movement is either chained to her or a winged fall and both of those things attract icicles and zen balls magically. Hitscans have to love that bright, shining "Mercy's over here" arrow conecting her to Pharah.

How would you buff Mei?
Currently she's in a weird spot where her M1 is used very rarely while her M2 has basically become her primary fire. She has a lot of potential to make a huge impact in the game, but her ability to freeze/slow enemies takes so long to do anything, it doesn't have too much of an impact in high-ranked games. My suggested buff is a decreased freeze time (probably 50% or 30%) and increased M1 damage (from 45 dps to 55 dps), while decreasing M2 damage slightly (from 75 to 60). This makes M1 the more promising choice than M2 at close range with the increased freeze time and only 5 less damage. At long range, she still is capable of doing something, but the decreased damage makes it less of a threat if she manages to headshot you. This keeps her from trying to just snipe long distances and encourages getting closer. I don't think her abilities or ult need any buffs, as they're already all pretty good. I think as long as her weapon becomes slightly different, she'll become ameizing. But that's just my suggestion and there's no one solid answer, what do y'all suggest?

Edit: alright I get my idea may be bad, but what suggestions do y'all have? I just want to be able to move around by using her gun like frozone. Sadly she doesn't need a buff tho
#HERO UPDATES

#Mei

* Added bed hair skin

* New passive ability: HNNNNNNG

* No random critical hits

**Developer Comment:** Adding this skin should help provoking instant heart attack in enemy players due to its cuteness.
Mei main, 2.9K + here who used Mei to climb a fair amount (high silver -> high plat.), please for the love of God do not ever suggest smth so bad. It would horribly nerf her. ATM an icicle head shot charges ult by roughly 7%. It is difficult to head shot with it due to delayed launch, projectile speed and low rpm, but it is the main way of gaining ult charge. Reduce her RMB dmg and you reduce ult charge gains heavily. Increasing LMB dmg (with or without reduced freeze time) will turn her into a crappy Symm knock off who needs to w+LMB into every team fight for ult charge. LMB is super easy to avoid (just stay out of range) and increasing its importance reduces her skill ceiling by a lot. So please never suggest that ever.:)
> Decreased freeze time

Not needed. She can already shorten it herself by using ult. Full freeze also isn't necessary on most heroes, since the massive slow is enough to be lethal. 

> Increase m1 damage

Icicles are the primary damage because they hit in bursts. Slight buffs to a firemode that even you say doesn't get used much won't change that. 

> nerf icicle damage

This does a little bit more than you think. First off, tracer absolutely does not need that buff. 

Mei's standard combo of freeze/slow -> icicle hs -> melee works right now on 200 hp heroes. It doesn't work if hs is only 120 damage. 

Nano mei is also decent because she can 2bs or 1hs 200hp heroes - this doesn't happen if she only does 60 base. 

> discourage long range sniping

Her ranged weapon is a projectile with a forced, fixed firing delay and massive dropoff. 

I play mei in high masters. She's not as ridiculously dominant as something like hanzo, sombra, tracer, or junkrat, but a well-played mei is very strong. 
I think this is a bad idea. The *reason* that her m1 is mostly ineffective is, actually, because of it's huge effectiveness. It didn't take me long to learn to avoid--as much as possible--Mei's m1 range when the beta first came out. I remember being soooo frustrated with the class, comparing her to an easier pyro from TF2. 

But what I was missing, and I think what many miss about her, is that her main contribution is in her walls. Outside of that, both her m1 and m2 play very very important roles. You can zone genjis and other flankers away from your healers just by BEING there. If Mei's m2 damage was brought down for the sake of a stronger m1, it would be an overall nerf to her. It's hard enough to contact players with her m1 as it is, and making it stronger at the cost of her burst damage would be a bad idea. 

I think mei is in a really good place right now. Being clever and often sneaky with your approaches will net you many freezes using m1. Splitting a team up and then freezing the one or two dudes that get the short end of the frozen stick is huge. Even slowing them down by almost freezing them is a huge help to your team. 

Without a strong m2, generating ult charge would be very difficult. You risk a lot getting within m1 range. So much so, that you almost always have to have cooldowns available to get you out afterwards. 
A few patches ago there was a bug on console where her ice wall would stay up indefinitely and would only go down if Mei threw up another one or the enemy team destroyed it. 

It was super OP at the time but I think with some tweaking it’d be a great buff to Mei, promoting teamwork in destroying her wall and turning her into a true defense character. Maybe the wall could have its HP bumped down a bit and Mei preparing another wall, not just casting it, would make the old one drop. 
I disagree. Her primary and secondary fire are fine. But I play her a lot, so my perspective is probably different from yours.

&nbsp;

If you want to change *anything* about Mei, change her animation when she's walking over a floor she's frozen with her primary fire so it looks like she's sliding like she does in one of her highlight intros.

&nbsp;

Though technically it would be nice if her secondary fire also counted towards the amount of ticks you need to hit someone with to freeze them, but in a much smaller amount than her primary fire.
Make her freeze beam reduce the effectiveness of all movement abilities (dash, blink, jump pack ect) by half and make it so when being hit by her freeze beam you cannot jump. 
Watch Jardio's stream (hit top 10 since s2 playing predominantly Mei) and you will see that M1 is not used very rarely at all. If a Winston jumps on his team he instantly goes to freeze him and same with a Dva
I'm hoping they'll turn the ptr icewall bug(where she can launch herself with wall)into a buff but like half as strong. 
Buff her wall. Do it like this:


Reduce the cooldown to a two second cooldown on the wall, but make the wall a depletable resource. 
Each wall segment can be destroyed. If a segment is destroyed, it must regenerate before you can use it again, but all the other segments can be used freely in the meantime to make smaller walls. 

So if Mei wall is made of 6 parts, and Bastion destroys two parts of the wall then Mei would only be able to place 4-part walls until the destroyed parts have had enough time to regenerate. 
Giving her a devil costume and putting her in hell
Mei main, top 1k on Overbuff for last 2 seasons, all I want is cryo freeze to purify Ana's nade.

Giving m1 more damage and range but give it pretty rapid damage falloff I think would be pretty interesting. 

I'd like for the freeze to be slightly faster and for it not to affect dpi. That just bugs me. 
Increase her m1 range and ult duration but make it so enemies are no longer frozen solid and cap the slowdown to something reasonable. Make it so cooling effect instantly removes lucio speed buff. Maybe the fully applied "frozen" effect increases target damage taken and this applies to barriers as well
When you shoot the ground with m1 you get an icy floor effect that speeds you up if you walk on it, enemies get a minor debuff of less friction making them change directions a bit slower.
shes too slow

left click is kinda bad

walls are very hit or miss
All she needs is right click fire rate and projectile speed buff similar to what hanzo got (10-15%).

Her left click is cancer, buffing that would be a horrible idea.

In Seasons 3 and 4 Mei was my 2nd most played hero in low GM with 56% WR. I didnt play her much in S5 bc she wasn't as viable against dive comp, her right click is just too slow to deal with multiple flankers diving you at once.  Her left click is good against dive meta chars 1v1 but not as much in a teamfight.

Also her ult travels really slow and gets eaten by dva 90% of the time, it could use a slight speed buff also.
Bigger boobs
If they buff Mei I think it should be a rework. M1 is not fun to play against and not super fun to use... In the rare occasions you can use it. I would like to see them remove her M1 altogether and replace it with something more fun to use and play against. 
I would give her a one-hit-kill with a *3 second* CD because nonsensical, hypocritical character design and reworks are apparently the direction we're taking this game. 
I would learn the schedule of a Blizzard dev, like Kaplan, maybe one of their animators. Ambush them on their way to work with a semiauto or midrange rifle and send that if they dont fix the game one dev will have the same thing done every week.
This is me too. I always start defense matches by spraying the ground in front of me and dreaming.
Tf2 memories.. balancing things by removing random crits
You're the devil
I disagree. She isn't considered meta or found at all in Masters or GM. When she is played in those ranks, she's met with constant flack for not going Soldier or McCree, similar to how other off-meta picks are treated. Her wall is great which is why I don't suggest buffing it, but I don't think her kit is solely about her walls. I think the ability to slow/stop enemies has a lot of potential, but just is not used. If it could be used more often with a slight buff to make it more viable, it'd be great.
Nice idea except for trolls sadly, teamblocker mei with walls that didn't get destroyed by a timer would be gamebreaking.
I've always thought it would be awesome if they made her iceblock have a minor goomba stomp effect if you landed on an enemy ;D
But why?:D
The internet roundly declared sombra to be still worthless even after her buffs, until she found her way into some higher level play and was summarily declared 'meta' and not a terrible hero after all, if a situational one.

But sombra didn't magically become any better just as she started getting touted as viable. The only thing that had changed was popular perception.

This is why you don't go round buffing things just because something isn't considered 'meta' enough. Mei as a hero is in a fine place, she's got a great & well balanced toolkit. She just needs a comp that she fits into, like any other hero does.
The only way to make her m1 more effective without sacrificing her burst damage (assuming they would go hand in hand based on your suggestion) would be to either make her m1 *way way* better. Freeze time could not be messed with too much or she wouldn't have a chance to get her m2 headshot off.

If you're wanting her to be a stronger pick, they could buff her m1 or her m2 and have a better hero all together. Without making her m1 *way way* better, they really can't nerf her m2 without her already low pick rate getting lower.

Most heroes don't get close enough for her to utilize m1, so players learned to adapt m2 aim to compensate. I feel like m1 and m2 for Mei is akin to Roadhog's. Both are useful in the right situation.
Sadly, people at almost all ranks appear to question any non-meta DPS pick.  Point taken however.
I can hear the thowmp noises already
I agree. Overwatch is still young, give Mei time to fit in somewhere.
But the thing is high ranked Mei players still don't use M1 at close range. Her M2 still deals more than twice the damage of M1. I'll agree maybe there shouldn't be a nerf to M2, but it shouldn't be as strong *comparatively* to M1
because in gm you are just gonna lose most of the time. on other rnaks its a different story.
It's hard to measure the exact value of a hero based on how the players with the best aim in the world use him or her. I get lots and lots of headshots with m2, sometimes even some close up--because of the burst. But when a genji is hopping around and I'm struggling, m1 is a very valuable tool to make him settle tf down. 

m1 is also very useful against Dvas and other tanks you might be able to get an angle on. Stopping Dvas DM or Winston's ability to jump pack away are huge.

I agree that her m1 is used much less often, but its use is still very effective under the right conditions--granted that much of its effectiveness depends on many factors, with some of them requiring yousetting them up yourself.
Jardio uses M1 at close range frequently, and his M2 is as good as it gets with M2. Watch his stream and it's apparent M1 is still quite effective at high ranks.

Tried Ana drills for the first time this week. Would like to know how I compare to other people who do drills
Long-ish description, but tl;dr at the end.

I've been playing since launch and mostly play mystery heroes, but do occasionally play comp.  I tend to hover in the 2600-2700 range. After watching [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PiRPWRP4l-0), he began describing gold players as "people who have excellent game sense and good ideas, and know how to make a comp, but lack of mechanical aim is holding them back." I immediately thought, *that's me*. 

I think I'm really a gold player, even though I'm in low platinum. The thing is, I tend not to play heroes that require good aim--I am a very heavy support, defense, and somewhat tank player, *and I always pick last, but I pick whatever the team doesn't have* to complete the comp. I favor Torbjorn, Symmetra, Zen, Mercy, Lucio, Orisa, Pharah, Winston, and occasionally Roadhog. I don't touch Ana, McCree, Widow, or anyone like that with a 10 foot pole. I think the fact that I don't pick aim-sensitive characters is why I'm in platinum at all.

So...I watched [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ie5446fSvcY) and spent a lot of time tuning my settings until I could reliably do what he was doing in the training arena (as it turns out my sensitivity for the past year was about 30%-50% too high), then I tried my hand at Ana drills for the first time. I've done drills at about 20 minutes at a time 4-5 times this week. I was starting out at around 15%-20% accuracy, but I could feel myself improving *massively*, as I'd never done just aiming practice before outside of just playing a game. After some time drilling each night I hopped into a QP game as Widow and started *wrecking face* (at least compared to how I usually do), wasn't really taking gold medals but I got a considerable number of kills and was accused of using Xaim by a Lucio I killed a bunch (which I took to be quite the compliment).

Now, for my drills, after about 20 minutes I'm almost always homing in to **28% scoped accuracy,** on the dot. So...how does that compare to other people?

----------------------

tl;dr how does 28% scoped accuracy for Widow in headshot-only Ana drills compare to other people who do Ana drills at various skill tiers?It's simple to get 95% accuracy against bots. 
If you're running drills right you can always challenge yourself and switch it up so you don't fall into a habit. That means your accuracy percentage will vary. Anyone with a high % is likely not getting anything out of it.
Mid-diamond here. I get around 40-50% (forgot exact; been awhile since I don't really play widow). I've been using Ana bots for warmup on every hero for the longest time though, so I'm pretty used to her hitbox.
Not a fan of Ana drills as much as widow hs only custom games but last time I did it I was around 33%. My rank is diamond where I play 
Ok, then I should be more explicit--hard Ana bots at 100% runspeed, 6v6 so they're all running around shooting randomly. But maybe you're right, and I'm just asking the wrong question. Trying to get a standardized metric on aiming alone.

Please join team chat as a premade
Almost every time I have a premade in a game, whether it's two to five people, they just stay in group chat and can't listen to call outs from the team.  Please join team chat to get call outs and increase communication and chances of winningControversial opinion here: people should be free to avoid talking to strangers.
As someone who duo's a lot, here is what I do if any of you care:

Make a private channel through battlenet with the people you wanna queue with and set your mic to open. 

Set OW to auto join team chat with "press to talk" or whatever it's called.  Then choose whatever key is easiest and most unobtrusive as your in game speaking key (mine is the sniper button thing on the G502.  

By doing this you and your mates are free to speak whenever you want and continue having a laugh privately but you can still hear the call outs from your team and speak to them easily without constantly taking up team chat by talking to your buds.  
I was huge on this before, now 7/10 times or so they just turn out toxic and ruin my thought process. What I do now is join chat, mute everyone and make calls. I'm mid diamond and very rarely does anyone make useful calls, most people are toxic or don't talk. I find I play much better without listening to others talk. I know the game enough to know what I should be doing every fight. People at my rank still stagger every game, and mindlessly run to the point on 2cp when they're down. Then they get mad at me for asking them to group up, calling what ults to use, asking to not stagger etc. it's a joke.
This really depends on the situation with my premade for me. If we're on Discord together, then we'll join team chat. If we're not, usually we'll stay in group chat, if my premade agrees to. I tend to get nasty comments for my gender when I speak in team chat, so I avoid it when I can. 

I wish more people would consider this when they yell at people to join team chat. Sometimes we're just protecting ourselves. 
I'll probably get a lot of hate for this, but I mute chat and don't join voice chat when playing Solo Queue Competitive.

&nbsp;

I realized that having a random stranger breathe into my ear and someone else complaining about everything your team does in chat really distracts me during the game itself and my performance takes a huge hit as a result. I can focus so much better and react so much quicker when it's just the game sounds and visuals that I have to deal with compared to having to interpret swear words in a language I've never heard before.

&nbsp;

So now I communicate solely with "Hello!", "Acknowledged", "I need Healing!", "Come to me if you need healing!", "My ultimate is ready" and "Dipstick". And I can't argue with the results; my average winrate increased from 40% to 67%.
Reading this thread makes me want to just stay in silver. 

Apparently, at ranks high enough that the game tells you that you are, at least mechanically, good at it, the overwhelming majority of players are either so emotionally stunted that they are constitutionally unable to play a friggin' video game without immediately turning into human dumpster fires, or are they can't brush off the bullshit and mute, and just play without instantly going into emotional free-fall.

Maybe it's just that down here in the shit ranks, we don't have so much ego or self-esteem invested in our SR. Communication down here tends to be inconsistent for the most part but I win more games (and have more fun at it) through decent comms than I lose through toxic teammates.
We only join the blue chat if the blues ask politely (in a normal way) and exit as soon as someone gets toxic. We even tell them we will do this after entering teamchat. Yeah, it´s stupid- but we play on EU servers, we have seen things. 
Speaking of high gold to mid diamond.
Listen to a bunch of little kids get upset or have a nice conversation with my friends. Tough choice.
Team chat is bullshit (at least on console). It literally DECREASES my chances of winning. I'd say join for 10 secs, if anybody tells you to switch or anything of the sort just get off.

"Can you be a healer? Sorry, can you be the specific healer?"
big no no.

I don't need team chat when I'm aware of:
  #1: Player location/position
  #2: Team ult percentage
  #3: Counter Ult percentage

(not exact but enough to say "hey, he should have his ultimate right about now)

Did we lose? Yes.
Was the majority of my team in team chat? Yes.

and I know what you're thinking "what if your team is planning a super duper sneaker flank or a push?"

that isn't a problem if the team is reasonable to begin with. at that point you'd have stayed in team chat because they weren't demanding anything from you.

"but what if you never in team chat?"

group up exists for a reason and if your doing your little flank just have your group spam that shit, it doesn't take a genius to figure out what to do.





There should be queue options for "chat preferred" or "chat silenced", so that people who don't talk can be grouped with and against other people that also don't talk and vice versa. Both in competitive, same rewards but at least you won't have to hear Jimmy's mom yelling at him that it's time for dinner
Another option which I do is join team chat with in game chat volume set to 0, this allows you to do the call outs you want without having to gamble on meeting toxic members of the community. I find this to be a healthy middle ground for my own sanity
Thanks man, that's a great idea btw and it would help new people understand the game quicker also. 
Tbh chat should default to team chat.
[deleted]
If it was possible to use in-game chat on console (and we could avoid the dead sloth-like psn chat system) there'd be no need for people joining chat. Right now there is NO way to communicate ults/pushes in a reasonably fast method and, I believe, win/loss comes down to which team gets more people willing to communicate in voice chat.
On the other hand: If you specifically ask for a pre-made to join group chat *DO NOT* have an open mic and a mechanical keyboard, for fuck's sake. Courtesy is a two-way street.
There really needs to be a low priority queue for toxic people and people who refuse to join team chat.
[deleted]
I could see that, but I feel it's important to be able to listen to someone like a mercy calling out when tracer or reaper is doing nothing but diving me and I can't call out to get help since there isn't an "assist me" emote
Talking is not a requirement to join team chat. Plenty of people without mics join it.
Teammates willing to put in the effort to communicate with their teammates should be free from lazy strangers who expect the rest of their team to pick up the slack.
This is the underlying issue many people face with the community right now.  When you queue for competitive, you should play with a competitive mindset willing to do whatever to win.  You definitely have a better chance of winning the game if you can fully communicate with your team, so join team chat!  If another character would better help you win a game, switch your character! 

If you just want to dick around and have fun, that's great!  In fact there are plenty of different game modes made just for you.  But when you queue for competitive, please play to win.
I agree, you shouldn't be forced to talk to someone you don't want to. But I would say that there will definetly be a threshold on how high on the ladder you can climb without decent communication. Just be prepared to hit that limit. 
If you don't want to talk to strangers, then you should probably not be teaming up with strangers in the competitive mode of a team-based game.
That's perfectly fine, but then when the 5-stack starts showering you with sarcastic "Thanks" the second something goes wrong... I get less sympathetic.
I heard there's a new Call of Duty game coming out
People who wish to avoid speaking to strangers should avoid random group activities.

This sounds more accurate, in my opinion. 
Then just stay quiet and mute the toxic assholes
They are. You don't have to play comp. Stick to quickplay and you can avoid talking to them all you like.

I Do this with discord instead 
Save ya some mute-button-pressing; the voice chat volume slider effectively mutes everyone.

If there were a few more text chat options (defeat %target% first!, incoming %target% %position%, etc) voice could die entirely. Older FPS had them, other Bliz games have them.
I feel sorry for you EU folks. Just the language barriers alone would be miserable ingame :(
Wouldn't it be more productive to join and mute those that gets toxic?
How about muting the toxic players, because you are missing on other callouts ?
Open mic+ mechanical keyboard needs a massive nerf.
Thanks for the advice! It was very helpful :P
The chicken's squeaks are very noticeable if she gets cooked by the British or Japanese. It's quite easy to hear if you are using a headset.

In fact, all in-game sounds are extremely informative and designed to be this way. Well, if you don't have someone talking non-stop on the mic.

Don't hold any expectations for soloqueue. Some people will never talk to you, and there is nothing wrong about that.
I tried that for a while, but it seems it's always just a matter of time before someone screams some funny meme or starts raging. I think I hear about <1% of useful calls.
tbh a lot of the time listening to your teammates will make you play worse and not better. It's reasonable to make a decision to not want to be in voice chat.
That's called a 6-stack. Just find a group and play in whatever way you like.
On the other hand, there are more than a few games where everyone in team chat is tilted already. Should I stay in team chat on the off chance that they actually start trying to win instead of complaining nonstop, or am I allowed to leave to save my own sanity?
This is going to be different for everybody but I've noticed for myself that team chat distracts me from my own improvement. So my competitive mindset has led me to accept this and take steps towards my improvement.
I think most people will hit a hard ceiling for their mechanical ability long before they're significantly held back by lack of communication.
Yes, because Overwatch is well-known for its community where absolutely everyone is civil and respectful.

People are toxic, dude. Some people don't want to gamble and avoid toxicity. Some people are just shy or simply don't speak your language. That's pretty much it.

You will forever remain a stranger to some people. Get over it.

You can survive on the chat wheel alone.
Passive-aggressive emoticons usage? At least you are not told to consider suicide because you failed to coordinate.
no, it'd be worse if everyone could speak perfect English and wanted to give their opinion.
If I had friends playing on the US servers I´d play there without hesitating. But it´s even kinda hard to get a "team" running in one region alone....
its not a problem at all tbh
> plis heel. heel mi yu nub, madafak bich

every day at least once
well, that would also work but the point is we dont even join if no one asks for it.  

Last sunday we had two games with ppl getting instatiltet while more or less still in the hero selction screen. one guy lost his shit over my sombra pick (I have 85h on her) and threw instantly the other guy from the next match was a Hanzo/Genju two trick pony getting hardcountered by our enemies and screaming/cursing at our supports for "not healing shit, hurr durr". As a Zen Main I got told to "shut the fuck up" several times while calling my discords...

Why should I even consider to waste my freetime with such people?  If they wanna communicate i´ll give it a try, no Problem here! 
But what if after 5 seasons now I just don't want to expose myself to the minority of players that tilt off the earth? I'm happy just Concentrating on my own calls and play while also letting me just enjoy the game without some toxic person ruining the match for me.

Season 5 was one of the most toxic seasons I've experienced which only reinforces my stance. Its a shame that I miss genuine calls that decide the outcome of a minimal number of my matches but while I'm maintaining a decent win rate around 4k then I'm happy. I've always got my duo to call out the actual important stuff if needs be
Open mic should be a crime punishable by years of hard labour. While somebody eats crisps into your ears.
[deleted]
Yes, ideally people pay attention but players can get tunnel visioned or have other noises in their face so they won't hear the character callouts. Also I've noticed Mercy will auto-callout 'they're all over me!' sometimes even if she takes just a stray bullet from a D.Va or something which can be misleading. I'll turn around to check and she's just fine. 
What in-game sounds help a teammate know that a specific enemy hero is low on health and can be taken out? How do you hear Zenyattas sneaking up on you? What if you died and saw that an enemy has an ult and wanted to let your teammates be aware of it? Which button can you hit to show these things?

Yeah yeah, I get it. I really do. You get home from a long day. Maybe you spent all day dealing with people at work/school, some of which are assholes. You just want to unwind. That's cool. Thing is, this is also a controversial opinion, there are other games. Ones that DON'T have you grouped with other people. Hell, there is even DM now for people that just want to solo or kill things.

At the end of the day, you can do what you want, but I'd rather have the toxic asshole who will at least be in chat to start (and who I can choose to ignore) than the guy who want's to be aloof in a team game for whatever reason. If 5 people are in voice chat and you're avoiding it, I'd say that's poor teamwork.
>Don't hold any expectations for soloqueue. Some people will never talk to you, and there is nothing wrong about that.

Completely agree.

It feels like 'can you get in voice chat' is the new 'can you go *meta hero* instead of *non-meta hero*?' There's an undeniable benefit to be gained from good comms, but there's a comparable benefit from plain ole gamesense and good decision making. 

Factor in how frequently or infrequently one might reasonably expect to encounter 'good' comms, and I've found it far more worthwhile and less tilting to rely on/develop my gamesense rather than rolling the communications dice every time I join a game.
> Some people will never talk to you, and there is nothing wrong about that

By not being in the team voice chat, they can't hear callouts. They don't need to talk, but having more information about what's going on is helpful, so hearing the rest of the team's callouts is important.
I'm not expecting you to try to make friends with the internet, but letting your team know a Tracer is flanking  your Mercy is game changing
That's absurd, the game's whole model is predicated upon which team can communicate and build a better comp together.
Team cohesion is not a skill reserved for high level group play, and it's sad that's the public consensus.
I usually give it a couple minutes after the first complaints or whining starts, I stick around to see if it turns into a fever pitch it or if it cools down. I wanna save my sanity too but to block out your team immediately in competitive is a recipe for failure.
I've had games where I'll get into team chat just to immediately leave after hearing two teammates going at it. I didn't pay for this game to play babysitter to grown-ass adults.
Some are also girls and women who don't want to be annoyed or to see their team throwing because "OMG we have a girl in the team! We're gonna lose!" I feel like it's not say often enough, but for a good portion of players that don't communicate... that's the reason.

(And for all the guys ready to tell me "it's not so terrible" or "it doesn't happen often" or "you're making in up/I've never seen it" or "get out with your SJW shit"... Don't waste your time and have a nice day :D)
if someone is toxic, mute or block them.
Always better to try beforehand, if it ends up being toxic as hell, sure go ahead and leave. I don't think it's a stretch to say that refusing to join team chat without good reason initially is kinda toxic.
its TEAM based game, there is nothing to be shy of or afraid of. you have to join the voice chat to get the calls not to make relationships. 

for me. sometimes i join a competitive where i find 4 french people and i know nothing about french language. but i got used to how to make a french calls or even understand them, 

if its hard for me i would ask them (politely) to speak english or at least translate for me. 
It's console, so it takes a couple of extra steps.
Not to mention the hit you take on ping.
I mean if they do proper volume gating I don't mind it. Its just that many people don't.
I do agree with you I just wanted to point out that your comment was part of the problem you were trying to address, as is mine right now
Okay, let me get this straight. I should jeopardize my mental safety so I can get some imaginary points that don't matter? Did I get it right?
Try playing hanzo for a few matches without switching and without turning comms off. 
They also can't hear people telling them to kill themselves and don't get shouted at.

Some people play to achieve positive experience. And positive experience means winning or at least putting 100 % of what is possible *and* not getting any toxicity.
Or you can just listen to her gun and dashes if you have a decent headset.

All in-game sounds are very specific. There even legally blind people who play the game.
I've read plenty of stories on reddit about people calling out their supports getting flanked and the team doing nothing about it.
I think your error is in the presumption that voice comms will help you do that. I don't deny that it can but in my experience it hurts more than it helps. It also distracts players from focusing on their own play and can make them play worse if they're the kind of player who relies on focusing on themselves and/or plays a mechanically technical character. Some players like to pay more attention to the macro parts of the game and for them being in comms can be helpful. It kinda depends on how you use solo queue. 
I constantly hear this mantra repeated. Nobody ever talks about the fact that the mental damage can be done in seconds before you block someone.

Some people just want to keep their sanity. Shocking, I know.
It's not fan being scolded for like 5th game in a row.
It´s around 100 intead of 25 but imho ping isn´t a real problem as long as its less then 200. I played quake3 with an isdn modem back then and we were absolutely fine ;)
What about sneezing and coughing though?
Your mental safety? What. Do you get tilted that easily? If people are being toxic you can just mute them with a couple of clicks.

Those imaginary points that don't matter are what people play the game for. They do matter to the people who try.
You can mute people selectively. I guess I assume the team wants to work together more than I assume that other players are raging asshats.
Literally any call-out and basic communication can make the difference between a coordinated engagement and a staggered push, everyone can't focus on everything all the time, there's plenty of opportunity to help your team with minimal talking required.

 I'm surprised this is such a controversial opinion for a team focused competitive game, in the subreddit dedicated to improving your gameplay no less.
No one does that except us, people that want to improve. everyone else is just playing for fun, so that can't and don't hear that tracer. 1400 hours comp ranging from high plat to gm
My personal experience is that when someone calls out their supports are getting flanked, they *are already nearly dead*, and by the time **everyone panics** and shows up to defend the support, *are already dead*. At that point everyone is out of position and you didn't hear that Riptire or Soldier's Aimbot because someone talked over voice comms.

&nbsp;

Whereas if they hadn't talked over voice comms, you would've heard the flanker's gun, you would have heard the support's cry for help from the character itself, and you would have heard that Riptire or Tactical Visor.
Maybe because no one on the team was in voice chat?
Trying always gives a better success rate than giving up.
This, I´d rather chop of an arm instead of soloqing on EU servers again. Yeah, you can mute asshats, have a fun danceparty after someone left etc. But like atomlib said, at this point the damage is done allready. Lately ppl even send FL requests only to tell you how hard you suck. Dafuq?!
If you don't have the mental resilience to sustain *a few seconds* of some worthless asshole bleating on voice chat, the internet is not for you.
if you get mentally damaged by a stranger online, then you are incredibly weak
Is that really a problem if they don't have a cold?
I don't like to be insulted and told to kill myself in graphic details, thank you very bloody much. I'm not talking to strangers, that's it. If you care so much about climbing, you will eventually.
I assume the opposite. As much as I want to assume there are more useful communication than toxicity — not people, the loud minority actually skews the proportions — reality proves that strangers should not be trusted.
> I'm surprised this is such a controversial opinion for a team focused competitive game, in the subreddit dedicated to improving your gameplay no less.

Are you new here by chance?  This has been the overwhelming sentiment here for over a year.  It is completely laughable, but when I point this out, I *always* get downvoted to hell.

This place is just a bunch of mentally weak people that seek confirmation bias on why they are "stuck in elo hell" or why they are justified in muting team chat and *refusing* to work with their team *before* they are ever even matched with them. 

This is the worst Overwatch subreddit and I literally *just* unsubscribed after reading your comment.  These people just do not seem to get it.  I am over it.  I can get the same or better guides from /r/competitiveoverwatch, and be able enjoy the other stuff that /r/overwatch has to offer.  Nothing here is introspective or unique. 

Communication is a *huge* advantage to have on the ladder; I am not going to mute everyone *before* being matched with them.  That can happen if they turn out to be toxic.  This is apparently a hot-take.  

Edit: Example: https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/6uedgt/why_if_youre_not_very_skilled_at_the_game_are_you/dls45m7/
I'm just getting better at other things instead. Communication is just one part of being good at Overwatch.
Dude, its´s every session at least once, most likely even more often over the course of a evening or day. At this point if i get actually nice randoms I nearly kiss them and wish the best after our matches - even if we lost.

I did eight of my placements so far. Two games had instathrowers and one a weird leaver guy. Ok eight games aren´t much, but that´s nearly 40% of games and just like the last season was.
If you don't have the mental resilience to talk to others or even just listen in team chat then you should not be playing this game on a competitive mode
The thing is, now that person is identified as a worthless asshole in your mind. You're going to be looking for him to do things wrong, get pissed (or worse, happy) when he does, be less likely to help him, and overall it will affect your game even if it doesn't ruin your day.

Additionally, someone else might argue with him even though they're not an asshole and get tilted. Now you're going to be angry FOR that person, and because your team is tilted you're going to tilt too.

You may think you're really tough and it doesn't affect you, but I bet you're wrong.
So you’d rather the next god-tier tracer, who happens to be shy, just stop playing the game entirely? Seems like a short-sighted point of view. 
Indeed I *am* incredibly weak. So what?
I have anxiety cough. I cough sometimes, especially when I am nervous.
You sound like the griefers you are complaining about. Are you so fragile that you can't even handle having to mute someone. Why do you even play competitive if you don't want to be part of the team? 
I don't speak English so there is no point in joining team chat for me.
No, it's how you connect every part of Overwatch with every other part.
* Don't play before, during, or long after primetime

* Don't soloqueue

* Don't play DPS

* Don't get unlucky with teammates

The only factor involved with matchmaking is to what degree your teammates are less worse than the opponent's.
> you should not be playing ~~this game~~ ~~on a competitive mode~~
What you're describing is just the process of being mad. There is nothing about playing a game with insufficients that requires you to get upset, or pay heed to them in any way whatsoever.

Stop trying to justify your juvenile lack of emotional control.
Yes. A player who never communicates is necessarily handicapping themselves, acting as a detriment to their team being unable to properly coordinate and therefore the enemy team in being unable to preset a fighting game. They will never, ever be as good as a player who does connect with their team's strategy. If you can't fill this role, multiplayer gaming is not for you.

There is nothing about being shy that precludes you from being a useful teammate. You don't even have to be social at all, tactical communication is often devoid of all emotion. You're just finding excuses to stay in your bubble.
Props to you good sir/madam.
That seems reasonable.  I myself have airplanes that make loud noises and prevent me from using an open mic.
1. How are you posting here in english if you don't speak english?
2. Even if you don't speak english you should be able to understand simple things like "Tracer Behind", or "Pharah Discord" which are key communications
Okay. We can agree to disagree.
Agreed.
Lol I'm pretty damn chill and it doesn't affect me as much as most people, but I'm realistic in that I recognize that I get a sense of satisfaction when an asshole ends up sucking. That alone means he's affecting my emotions, even though it may not seem or feel like it. If you're above such petty things then more power to you, but I suspect you're not and just think you are.

The very fact that you described him as a worthless asshole tells me it's already affecting you.
I am 34 years old and I can tell you for sure that exactly this "juvenile lack of emotional control" is the bullshit who brings up the worst in toxic players. I'd even go so far and say it isn't even juvenile, it's a lack of characters if you fuck over other people while playing a game with them. It's unbelievable weak. 
So lets say our hypothetical tracer is literally better than everyone else. They just happen to be shy. Maybe they’re handicapping themselves, maybe not, but either way you’d rather that person not be on your team, despite their clear ability to carry any team to victory. That’s just stupid to me, I don’t care whether or not someone is in voice chat as long as we win
Nice, how many do you have? Do they eat a lot? What are airplanes like as pets?
ErgoDox EZ, it's a pretty nice ergonomical keyboard. You really should give it a try. Although it's quite expensive even for a mechanical keyboard — it's $300 plus shipping and tax.

Still, it's a 2-piece ergonomical keyboard with palmrests. Should be good for your arms, I hope. You may use it for gaming, although you will have to reconfigure the standard WASD layout. Personally I use a rubber dome gameboard since it's quieter.
And yet it's still reflected in win/loss ratio.
>> You're dumb if you don't let it upset you

> It doesn't upset me

Okay sure bud, whatever you say.
You don't care about the 99% of the human population you never see, why are you exerting so much energy paying attention to the people who least deserve it?
Yes, why is this so difficult to grasp? Of course you wouldn't value it, you have no conception of the worth it poseses. Have fun with your delusions and ruining the game for other people.
I have a good 7-8. They are pretty independent creatures, they tend to forage for themselves at nearby hangers and airstrips, but they always make sure to check up on me regularly and give me a shout before they go out to frolic with their friends.

My SR gains for wins are less than my SR drops for losses! What should I take away from this?
So, first thing, I understand **why** there's the difference (I'm losing/winning with a team SR difference).

My question is, I'm wondering if this something I need to be looking into?

I've played [28 games, gone 14-14, and I'm down 24SR](https://imgur.com/fuQoODd). I know, I know.  Not a huge dramatic swing so far (or maybe even not a big enough pool of data). But as it stands right now I'm 50% win/loss and losing SR. [Here is a breakdown of what I've gained/lost so far](https://imgur.com/yebFOne). As you can see, my wins aren't gaining a lot, but my loses are losing more. I'm playing healer a lot (Ana/Zen/Mercy).

Is this solely because of the team SR difference, or the performance-based system causing the difference?

You are either matched with enemy team of lower average SR. This is something very likely in very high SR (4400+) but very unlikely at your SR.

The other reason is that the game think your SR is too high compared to your true rank. This can be due to the performance based SR or whatever else the game is using to evaluate your hidden MMR.

Just don't focus too much on that and focus on getting better at the game. You have very little control about how the game is evaluating your performance but what's pretty sure is that if you get better you will climb. 


It's a common thing. I used to get something like this last season win 15~28 SR. lose 25~32
I lose less sr for losses when I do really well despite the loss. I don't gain a lot of sr when I win if I was carried. It goes by performance, the lowest sr I lost was 18 but I've lost up to 30 before too. 
I went 3-3 the other day and ended up losing 24sr. How can blizzard justify that when the games at the highest rank aren't even balanced and you can't even carry?
That this thread has fuck all to do with improving at the game.
But I thought the whole change of S6 was that you got placed at your true rating.  What caused the system to change it's mind while I'm still maintaining a 50% win rate that it thinks I'd suddenly lower.  I would figure that since I'm 50% I'm at my true rating, right?
He didn't mention the other factor used to determine SR losses/gains which is "performance". Blizzard is comparing you to the "average" player at your MMR using your hero and adjusting SR gains/losses accordingly.

Honestly, I wouldn't worry about this at all. Even if your goal is to merely maintain your current rank (and you probably actually have a goal of climbing) these kinds of numbers only really matter to the #500 player trying to maintain top 500. Otherwise, just try and improve as a player and the rank/SR will come.

Yes, not always fairly, RNJesus hates you, etc. but that's OK.
Simply put, your in-game stats are bad. You need to perform better in the game, according to Blizzard's unknown definition of better. Some stats are more important than others, but we don't know what they are. So just try to get better: kill/damage/heal more, die less. That kind of thing.
You only have a very small amount of games: 28. It's not enough to perfectly assert the SR of a player, so the system is consistently doing adjustment depending on a various number of factors that the community doesn't really know. That's the "performance" based system.

In order to find a good SR for players quicker, the system is not only using one statistic (the win rate) to evaluate players, but a lot of them (eliminations, death, damage and probably a ton more, only blizzard knows). Blizzard alraedy explained that they are doing this because otherwise they would need hundred of games to truly assert a player SR if they based their algorithms on win rate only.

This makes the system good quicker, you will end up with a hidden MMR really close to your true MMR really quick, but it has the side effect of feeling unfair sometimes considering how there are a lot of play style in overwatch and how some of them can have very bad impacts on statistics while still being efficient.

Like I said, just try to focus on getting better and you'll win more and you will convince the system that you deserve a higher rank and it will help you climb.
This effect is particularly heinous against folks with slower reaction times than a "typical" player, but who can compensate for it with better game sense and tactics. So older players or folks who don't play a lot of FPS games.

Source: 36-year-old strategy gamer who hasn't touched an FPS since Tribes 2.
As a 47 year old player who has never played FPS games, and definitely not PVP, I know the pain. Oh do I feel it.

What time is comp q most competitive: the beginning of the season, or the end?
I’m watching lonehawk’s video on the new season and he’s talking about how joining up is a crap shoot for the quality. Sometimes you get teammates that really want to try to win, other times you get people who just play to play so you can’t really do anything to win. 

With the recent change in season length, blizzard said they shortened the season from 3 months to 2 because they found that matches towards the end of the season were less competitive than at the beginning.

However, i’ve felt almost the opposite. Since i’ve stated playing, the beginning of the season has always been the most chaotic period of time to play, with the most inconsistency, and the most deliberate throwers and leavers. towards the end of the season - I guess people play less or something - there are less leavers and throwers for me, and the game feels much more competitive and consistent. 

What do you guys think, and what has your experience been? How does this affect your play strategy for the season and your climb? 

Because I tend to view the few weeks of the season with dread. This causes me to delay playing as enthusiastically until mid season, then I taper off into playing just solo matches at the end sometimes due to the stress of wanting to end the season at least where I began it. 

Also related, how does this affect your training strategy during the season, if at all?

EDIT: I placed, and currently am hovering, at about 2200 for reference. In my experience, the quality is a bell curve. The first week is bad - a lot of people just trying to get placements done who don't otherwise care. The last week is bad for the exact same reason. Somewhere in the middle of the season are the highest quality games.
As a GM player, the last week or two of the season was by far the most competitive, at least at my rank (4300+) as people was either trying to climb to top 500 or maintain their top 500 spot. 
I have tended to climb more in the beginning of the season. I have found that more players are willing to do what it takes to win (aka play supports and tanks). This is my high plat - mid diamond experience on Xbox. 

Another possible reason it seems more competitive for me is that at the end of the season, lots of players play on smurfs or alternate accounts where they care little for team comp or winning. While I can't prove anything I believe that these players play their main accounts more at the beginning of the season and less at the end.
It's the most competitive right about the time for the Harvest Moon, when the salt is the ripest and the vengeful cries of Mercy mains can be heard all throughout the night.
My perception is that in the beginning of the season, a lot of people who was season banned comes back, and toxicity goes up a notch. Wait one or two weeks and those people get banned again.

Right at the last week its fine if you are somewhere middle of a tier, but if you are high within your tier (eg, 1900 or 2400), you get a bunch of people trying their best to climb at the end, and this is stressing, and many of them tilt very easily.

IMO, the best time is third week all the way up to penultimate week. Avoid start and end of season. 
I seem to have had the opposite experience to most people here, so it looks like it's mostly subjective.

I usually do most of my climbing at the beginning of the season and then see a sharp spike in toxicity, throwing, and stubbornness by the mid season. I personally think that around the 1.5-2 month point most people have ended up where they're going to stay most of the season and then get bored. Nearly every season I've had to take 2 or more weeks off and play something else because I'll drop 300-400 points out of nowhere in just a few days.

I'll come back in the last few weeks of the season when people start to care again, and then climb back up towards  where I started or a little higher. 

The whole system starts to feel predetermined after awhile. You're doing too well, let me pair you with awful DPS that can't stay alive and tanks that hunt kills instead of protecting their team. Oh, now your win rate is below 50%, that's too far, let me give you some good teams for a few matches so we can even that out again. I'm hoping the shorter seasons will help with the mid-season slump, as I call it.
Plat here, end of the season is way more competitive. I guess after placements many players just play until they hit the bottom of their new rank and then stop cos they don't want to lose it. And in the end of the season you more likely will meet those who think they still have "a last chance" to rank up, so they try harder. 
Also I watched some Skyline videos lately, he recommends "experiment in the beggining and try to climb after that". He's pretty popular youtuber, so..
Before getting excited by the prospect of gaining a cunning advantage by cherry-picking the time of play to give you a greater chance of a win.. just bear in mind that if there *is* any genuine advantage, it's equally likely to manifest amongst the enemy team as your own. So, no actual advantage there. 

On the reciprocal opposite side, there is a theoretical advantage to your team if you're the 1 person consistently trying, whereas you could get 0/6 people trying on the other team vs minimum 1/6 on yours - \*but\* you have to ask yourself the question here - do you *really* want to be picking your time to play to coincide with a time when others are overall less likely to be trying? If there's any truth to the theory, you're just inviting frustration.
I found towards the end of last season people were picking heroes that they had a win rate playing.  I saw this more with dps heroes.  For me, it has been harder to climb at the end of the season and I tend to almost always lose 200 - 300 SR (on my main account) in the last couple weeks of the season.

I have found the games to be different on my higher level account vs new account.  I didn't have the SR loss on my new account at the end of the season.  I was matched with low level players (more often than not) that were more interested in winning and cooperative.
First couple weeks of the season is the most competitive imo, except for the GMs due to the end of season top 500 push.

My theory, observed from attitudes and feedback from players, is that this trend is driven by the huge wave of semi casual comp players who start out the season trying to climb to a goal or the next rank. They plateau, either reaching their goal rank or getting discouraged. At this point, the attitude becomes, now I'll just play for fun instead of trying to win, they stop trying for the rest of the season because they feel there is nothing to gain.

This is when they transition to their true mess-around preferences, be it instalocking Hanzo/Widow/Genji, practicing their bad heroes in comp games, or just filling out a team with no healers and not even caring. They start pulling the defeatist behaviors of swapping to a troll pick when the first team fight is lost, wasting solo ults when their team is dead, or just generally hanging back and spamming damage, semi afk like it's QP.

I think this is a repeated behavioral pattern that a large percentage of the comp player base falls into, and it's a one-time switch each season. They try up until a point, then they give up for the rest of the season. That's why I think the beginning is the most competitive.
A curve something like [this](http://i.imgur.com/Qs4Zey6.jpg). I tried to do the curve in the post but the formatting didn't work out so I just took a picture.

There's definitely an early to mid-season sweet spot. Also, the last week or so varies based on rank, it can be terrible at a lot of ranks, but in GM everybody wants that phat top 500.
I've been +/- 80 Sr since the end of last season mid 3400s, never hit master came within one game at least 5 times so far...sigh
anecdotal
oh nothing like that at all. I know there are certain times o day that may be better or worse due to people getting off of work and school or such, but my question was geared more as a “how do you feel the season goes, and how do you deal with it, if at all?” kind of question. 

Regardless of how the season actually progresses, people feel it different, and I just found it curious what those differences may be and how people deal with it. 
Yes, indeed. Thank you for your bountiful contribution. The discussion you have spawned with your singular word has shifted my view of the meta, and enlightened me to the path I must take on the way to the top. I have ascended, and now I play overwatch with my feet as I browse reddit in my apple TV 4, sipping mimosas as I adjust my fedora for my photo op with Haksal and Lunatic Hai.
So what are your favorites for mimosas? Do you add any triple sec?

Triple sec instead of OJ?
Actual champagne or another sparkling wine?

I myself have a home carbonator, and am particularly fond of  carbonated Riesling.
 
The question: What time is comp q more competitive, beginning or end of season? 

The answers you will receive: anecdotal. 

Or should I make it even easier for you to understand?
Can I say sound more hipster by saying I prefer virgin mimosas in the rocks?

Yeah, i’ll totally go with that. Virgin mimosas with a hint of pineapple jui- mixer. I was totally going to say pineapple mixer as I tipped my fedora, lol. 

(I don’t really drink lol)
Again, I thank you so much for contributing to this discussion. We have all here learned so much from you, and how you cope with the changes in this season.

In a subreddit dedicated learning and helping people grow in all aspects of the game, you’ve truly impacted us all. 

“anecdotal”. This singular word will carry me upwards like the wind beneath Mercy’s wings. 

Let me make it easy for you. “anecdotal” doesn’t contribute anything. Tell us about your season and how you deal with the changes you perceive. 

Compare stories with other people. 

And contribute things that help you throughout the season. 

But, I think you summed it up pretty well. “Anecdotal” seems to be the extent of your ability to contribute. 

If you want to improve with Ana, this custom game will help you and it's fun.
It's actually a different kind of Ana Paintball. It's Ana only Deathmatch with paintball settings. 

You will probably find a game like this to join in custom game lobby. But in case you do not, here's how to create one.

 - Name: Ana Paintball Deathmatch (or similar name so everyone can find it)
 - Open to: Everyone
 - Heroes: All disabled except Ana.
 - Modes: All disabled except Deathmatch.
 - Respawn time: Set to 10 or 20 %
 - Hero Limit: Off

Ana:

 - Health: Minimum
 - Damage Dealt: Maximum
 - Biotic Grenade: Off 
 - Sleep Dart cooldown: 10%
 - Quick Melee: Off

This makes the game mode a pure quickscope / sleepdart experience. 

I believe quick scoping is a crucial skill to have with Ana. Mastering it and applying it to your performance will immensely boost your gameplay. Similarly, sleep dart is one of the most powerful skills Ana has in her arsenal and this mode provides a lot of help landing those.

This game mode should help you practice both, while still having a lot of fun.

[Here](https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/6mxbqz/short_guide_on_ana_quickscoping_w_gif_and/) is a guide on quickscoping with Ana. 

Also [here is a sleep dart guide.](https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/6tgul4/guide_on_how_to_land_sleep_darts_on_genji_tracer/)

2 things not covered in this game mode and are crucial to Ana gameplay are the defensive/offensive use of grenades and positioning as a healer. [Here is a comprehensive Ana grenade guide](https://www.reddit.com/r/Competitiveoverwatch/comments/5z19zq/the_complete_ana_guide_biotic_grenade_xpost_from/) and [another guide here](https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/5gp6nz/indepth_ana_guide/) to cover these. Links may be pre-nerf but the technicalities within will still help.

Thanks for reading.
Tank guides or high tier Dva/Zarya streamers?
Hey all, I wasn't able to find a recent (or good) guide to tanks, and I plan on focusing on this role for S6. I'm mid plat right now and looking to hit Diamond, focusing on tanks like Dva and Zarya. Does anyone know of any streamers or anything that can help me out? Previous seasons I was always support or Pharah but I noticed I usually have several gold medals with Dva so I'm working on bettering myself as her and others.

Edit - My profile, for those interested: [Masteroverwatch](https://masteroverwatch.com/profile/pc/us/Lief-11478), [Overbuff](https://www.overbuff.com/players/pc/Lief-11478?mode=competitive)**D.Va**

Bischu

Hyp3d

Hoon

SPACE

Mickie

Emongg (flexes, but plays a lot of D.Va)


**Zarya**

SPREE

Sinatraa (obviously plays a lot of Tracer, but he's also arguably best NA Zarya)

Harbleu

Hoon

Miso

Zunba
twitch.tv/inyrmindfuzz is a DVa/Zarya main 
https://www.youtube.com/user/jwcanas1an. u/CANAS1AN is a great zarya resource!!
Remember, Dvas getting a rework so what you learn may be short term on her
Did bischu stop playing zarya?
thank you! I will check them out later if they are on :)
I seriously wouldn't watch Hoon for D.VA play...
No, he's just a lot better at D.Va, so I just put him there.
I haven't watched any other streamers but I do watch Harbleu and he's pretty entertaining outside of just watching to see how a pro does it

Tuesday Tips'n'Tricks Thread - 2017, Thread #21

Hello OU!

 

Welcome to **Tips and Tricks Tuesday** - Every week we provide a thread to create space for simple and advanced tips and tricks on Overwatch.

****

**Share your advice, help other players learn new tips/tricks!**

This thread is dedicated for tips and tricks to people who've already put some hours into Overwatch. If you need to ask simple questions regarding the basics of Overwatch, please visit this weeks(or last weeks) "Simple Questions" thread, posted weekly on Thursdays. As always, please follow our [Rules & Guidelines](https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/wiki/index) before posting. Feel free to branch out if you feel like you have additional advice to give or if you want to create discussion.

* Genji's deflect can deflect every projectile in the game!
* Torbjorn's Turrets can pick up health packs!
* Try out every hero atleast a few times, so you know what they generally do, where they are strong at and what counters them.

*****

**Feel like helping out?**

This event is hosted weekly on Tuessday, meaning there will be a weeks worth of tips and tricks given in this thread. Please check back frequently to see if new tips and tricks have surfaced.

 

Visit our [Event Archive](https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/wiki/eventarchive) to view past posts.
When playing any sort of tank/support role you have to remember that you are a team player, not a damage dealer. Your job isn't to get kills/high damage. Your job is to help your damage dealers do all that by either creating space and CC as a tank or increasing their durability/survivability as a support. Behind every Tracer, Genji, and Pharah ult 5k, there is usually a Zarya grav or even an Earthshatter behind the scenes, helping these heroes secure those kills.

Now get out there and get ready to soak up damage and/or heal it!
When playing as Winston, wait to drop your bubble until after the enemy all starts shooting, you can tank a fair amount of damage and sometimes that half second difference is all you need to get your jump off cooldown to escape.
When playing with Mei, avoid bumping enemies when she's trying to freeze and kill enemies or walling off enemies/threats unless you are completely sure the enemy will die. 
Chances are you're going to get someone on your team killed by preventing a kill confirm or helping the walled off threat get to Mei and friends. (especially when she walls off someone like McCree and Junkrat ends up launching him over it via a failed concussion mine kill)
For the Winston and Roadhog players, stop ulting players caught in Blizzard. You'll almost always push more people out of the range and save them than kill people.


Im not a mercy main or something.. But think about your positioning not just for faster heals.. But also as an exit for your mercy. Super easy on nubani defence for example.. Different highgrounds in a 360 area. If someone is staing anywhere up there she has a perfect go to all the time. 
[CaptainPlanet's meta post](https://www.overbuff.com/blog/2017-09-07-overwatch-hero-tier-list-and-meta-report-a-patch-from-the-past) has a GREAT writeup on how to deal with "cheese" comps (Torb/Sym/Orisa) that I would highly recommend anyone reading.
Your win rate is far more important than getting high kills, most objective time, or most heals. Stick to characters you win more with than what you feel you do good with. 
Pharmercy is only a threat if they prevent you from going onto or keep the objective. Though this is sometimes considered a strong combo, don't forget this a King of the Hill game not most frags win (unless you're playing deathmatch). If pharmercy is in the sky, that leaves two less enemies to remove from the payload/objective. Avoiding confrontation can work just as well as a multikill if your focused on securing the objective.
For the love of god don't Lucio boop the target I just hooked
Do we know the players distribution over SR ?
I'd be curious to see the shape of that bell curve
https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/6yer72/advanced_ana_movement_and_positioning_tips_from_a

I wrote too many to fit in a comment so I posted that there. 
Wait if torb's turrets can pick up health packs does that mean you could pair it up with a sombra at the start of a match for extended ulti building for both sombra and torb?
Sorry if this isn't the right place to post a question but does anyone have video of someone arm aiming that includes their entire arm? I'm not sure if my elbow should rest on my desk or if my entire arm should be "locked" (Like when you lock your knees but with arms) and floating above my desk without making any contact.
If you are on high ground with junkrat and want to hit enemies on the ground without exposing yourself, shoot your nades at the ground in front of you so they bounce off the high ground and hit at a low trajectory. 
At the right angle, junkrat can shoot nades under the car. Put the car between you and the enemy and spam away. 
Don't be forced into flexing to fill a role, if you're good with a character(s), it's OK to stick with them as long as you win the match.
I cleaned up as McCree the other day and everyone praised me, but nobody praised the Rein who set it up with an Earthshatter. Made me sad. There's definitely not enough love for people who play tanks/supports well.
On the flip side, dropping your bubble when you land, even if you're not under fire yet, still provides protection from incoming fire as well as gets your bubble off cooldown sooner.

The thing to really keep in mind here is that Winston does not regenerate his health pool like Zarya does. What you've described is a tactic used by Zarya. Bubbling after taking damage gives you time to start regenerating shields which effectively increases your health pool.

Alternatively, if you leap on to or behind the enemy and no one is firing at you and you drop your bubble and no one is still firing at you then you could run the risk of wasting your bubble entirely. If you're just flat out being ignored then the barrier goes wasted. At the same time, if you land too far away from your target and drop it there then now you have to run out of it to chase your target which effectively wastes the barrier as well. Both of these scenarios are unlikely in the hands of a decent Winston. They're rookie mistakes that are quickly learned and corrected. They're still good information to have and to know if you're new to Winston but are rarely an issue.

So, the more likely scenario is landing, taking on fire, dropping barrier after having taken some degree of damage and now you're left with the threat of the enemy chasing you in/out of your bubble while you wait for leap to come off cooldown. Providing they do chase you. They may ignore you, in which case you have to follow them and when you do they turn and fire on you some more. 

You're leap cooldown will reset the same regardless of when you drop your barrier. It's best to drop it a bit earlier in order to have it ready again sooner. You may not want to drop it immediately as you land, though. You may want to get attention before you do, but don't wait until you've lost any real degree of health before you do.

This is all assuming you don't have pocket heals also. If you do then that changes things a bit because you can help farm your healer's ult by taking some damage. But that's a bit more of an advanced tactic as it carries risk so you have to be fairly confident in your and your healer's ability to keep you both alive.
Alternatively boop early while the enemy is still stuck in the hook animation. Or land 3 head shots and boop. When combo'd with your hog's shot, it'll likely instakill the hooked target - unless they're a tank. In that case don't boop
It can't anymore
THIS. In Overwatch, your healing/dmg won't help your 20% wr and 5% acc become good, unlike in Lol, where even the worst Jinx (dps) can kill a whole team in 3 seconds with dedicated supports.
I think it has to do with PotG not recognizing them. Kills that are scored during or immediately after a CC should reward the assisting player with points equal to the value of damage dealt during CC plus a small bonus for the assist. This would ensure that in situations like yours, the Rein would have a small fire boost over you, but if you followed that up and killed another person or two without direct assistance, you'd come out ahead of him.
The change to the kill feed was a really nice change to show who helped in setting up the kills, but I 100% agree the support and Tank don't get enough recognition. 
Yea you'll never see the Zarya get potg for a grav - dragon strike combo when dragon strike is certainly not the hard part to land
For situations like this I opt sometimes for deploying the bubble on mid-air so it happens the following.

Winston Jump.
Deploy bubble.
Winston Punch -> Land.
Take little damage.
Bubble lands.
Bubble breaks.
Jump out.
You're rarely going to survive a dive long enough to drop your bubble a second time, so getting that off of cool down is worth a lot less than having a bubble in a spot where you can do some damage. If you drop it as you land you can now no longer chase anyone without taking damage, it's almost always a better idea to hold it until they start firing g at you and then dropping it.
Not many players agree with this concept and why you get so much toxicity. Before judging a Widow, Hanzo, or Bastion, check their win rate over time. Also, because you're a headshot god with McCree doesn't mean you win games with him. Learned this the hard way and why I'm a Zen/Symmetra main now.
They really need to rework the potg system, like maybe on a per hero basis. It may be time comsuming to come up with the algorithms. But after having sooooo many games with someone like Ana and hit some crazy sleeps like on a flying pharah or something then follow with a double kill with bio nade while healing your team the whole time, idk. Its really discouraging as a support when you do same crazy technical calculated shit only to NEVER get potg because d va pressed Q and your team was too dumb to run away. I probably have less than 5 potg as support and they were either a double environment kill with lucio boop or doing work as Zen getting several kills quickly, might have one with mercy for a quad res or something. But regardless its way too easy for certain heroes to get it just because of the core of the hero. GIVE ANA SOME LOVE BLIZZ PLZ WE DO THINGS TOO
This is why I say it's situational. If you're landing on your target then you're already in a position to drop bubble immediately. It'll be up long enough to absorb it's full capacity and give you less time to wait on cd. It's not supposing that you'll need bubble again in that same fight. Someone should be dead and you should be out before you need it again but you may need it after you jump out to protect someone else or yourself if they can/do give chase. 

If you're going to have to chase someone then sure, drop it after you've begun receiving damage, but drop it as soon as they start. Don't worry about taking half your hp before you drop it. The barrier isn't mobile. It's easy to dance around and kill Winston.
I mean, I already mentioned the winrate factor, and totally agree that a +% winrate hanzo deserves no flame.

But if he has a negative winrate, I'll kindly ask him not to record for his montages clips
I mean, it seems like it's just the way of the world. Look at sports. The guy that scores the most points gets the glory. In American Football, you could have the lineman dropping some of the best lead blocking out there, but the highlight reel goes to the running back that got the touchdown. 

The unsung heroes of our time. 
Agreed.
Oh I know :( being a support main in dota for over 2000 hours its the same thing. I'm kinda used to it at this point. But I have noticed my teammates usually tell me when they notice me doing a good job or made a sweet play, which I'd rather have than a potg lol

(Console) What aim settings do you guys use and what do aim systems like dual zone mean?
I was using dual zone before but now I have changed to exponential ramp in the hopes that it will improve my accuracy. My aim has gone down the shitter and was wondering what aim settings you guys are using. My current aim settings are(if i remember correctly) 

Sensitivity Horizontal 45  
Sensitivity Vertical 35  
Aim smoothing 50  
Aim assist 10  
Exponential ramp 

I was wondering if these settings were good and what settings do you use and prefer. Dual zone and exponential ramp are to do with how quick your crosshair moves, dual zone meaning it moves at a steady slow pace as your right stick moves at a slow pace, until it reaches a certain point, at which it starts moving at a quick steady pace. Exponential ramp gives you a direct correlation between the movement speed of the right stick and the acceleration of the crosshair. 
Dual zone is superior in every way and it was a God send when implemented. Turn it back on.
Why is your aim assist so low?

Crank that beast back up and go ham my friend.  I tend to keep my sensitivities the same, but it's not necessary. Aim smoothing for me is at 80. And I use Dual Zone.

I'd suggest trying dual with your assist cranked up more. I liked it better that way.
Use dual zone; it's basically like having two different aim sensitivities. When you move the stick in small increments, the sensitivity is low and it allows you to make fine adjustments. Pushing the stick something like half way or more results in the sensitivity changing to a larger value thereby allowing you to turn quickly. You said it yourself, you switched to exponential ramp and your aim went to shit. 

As for aim smoothing, I initially preferred a lower setting which made it feel like my aim was somehow more responsive? However, I was mostly playing less aim intensive characters then and didn't really see much of a difference. I just started trying out more aim intensive characters and I felt like my aim was pretty jerky. I ended up increasing aim smoothing for those characters and I've been happy since. Take that as you will, I think it's really a matter of opinion. 

Why is your aim assist off in a comp match!?!? I can't think of a scenario where aiming on console without the assistance of a computer would make someone better. Why would you want to play at a disadvantage? Worth noting though is the idea that learning to aim without the help of aim assistance could Improve your aim with it on. Personally I like to run aiming drills without any aim assist for 30mins to an hour or so. Then I'll turn aim assist to 100 and run through the drill as fast as I can. I feel like it makes a difference. 
Check this video out, it's helped me a lot:
https://youtu.be/Ie5446fSvcY
\*\* **APB: Linear ramp was fixed in the recent patch** \*\*

I strongly recommend trying it out. I used to use dual-zone as best of a bad bunch but kinda hated it, have switched over to linear post-patch and I swear aiming has never been easier.

Why? Because linear ramp is the 'normal' technique for gamepad fps games, i.e. the one that makes the most obvious sense and feels the most natural. It simply works well. Making it a bit of a travesty that it's been broken in ow for so long, but NO LONGER!
I use dual zone for almost every hero except for projectile heroes where I want an even spread. 

My Genji is linear ramp, with 70 sens. 

For hit scan, you'll definitely want dual zone as it allows for steady tracking more easily. 
Linear ramp is broken atm, and has been since it laumched, so of course dual zone is superior atm
Strong aim assist is pretty horrible in ow especially if you're playing with projectile characters where you have to lead your target. You end up just wrestling against it the whole time which entirely defeats the object.

In fps games that use an ADS / hipfire system, aim assist is really helpful (and a bit cheaty) when it snaps you onto or near a target when you press ads in their direction. But discounting widow/ana, ow doesn't have any ads - just the 'slow controls and track enemy when near crosshair' thing. A little autoaim can help but I wouldn't have it over half.


Video linked by /u/phantomfyrus:

Title|Channel|Published|Duration|Likes|Total Views
:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:
[Overwatch Aiming Exercises and Fundamentals](https://youtu.be/Ie5446fSvcY)|Skyline|2016-09-18|0:10:02|13,892+ (98%)|379,068

> A video where I go over how to practice your basic aiming...

---

[^Info](https://np.reddit.com/r/youtubot/wiki/index) ^| [^/u/phantomfyrus ^can ^delete](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=_youtubot_&subject=delete\%20comment&message=dmmkxwk\%0A\%0AReason\%3A\%20\%2A\%2Aplease+help+us+improve\%2A\%2A) ^| ^v2.0.0
It's been fixed.. go try it out it's fine now (and works really well)
Huh, TIL. I'll try adjusting my aim assist down tonight and see if it makes a difference. Thanks!
Really?! Awesome! Well then now all we need is a an FOV slider for console!

What role should I play?
https://www.overbuff.com/players/pc/DeadByDay-1250

Pretty simple question, but I'm just really confused on what role I should play. I don't know if I should play support, tanks, dps, and would appreciate some help to find an answer to this.Play whoever you like to play.
I'm not close to your SR, so take it with a grain of salt. As others said, play whoever you prefer.

Just judging by your stats from this season only, you seem to catch fire and relatively dominate as tank for the most part. Your win percentages are good on them, barring a couple... Zarya's win percentage is low but you were on fire and dominating pretty much that entire time, and even if that is only a small sample size it's impressive.

Winston you are great with as well, and Reinhardt, so you are properly set up and able to flex in and out of what your team needs with ease. 

I'd keep Ana and McCree in your back pocket because you appear to be pretty good with them, too. But focus on the tanks. Just my two cents.
Hey TurtleSeason!

Turns out that what you think you should play, what you want to play and what you are actually good at are different things. If you just want to play the game, play the heroes you enjoy playing the most. If you want to win, figure out what hero you are best with, and play that hero.

&nbsp;

Don't play a hero you *think you should play* but don't enjoy.
i would go with winston, hes really good and you can carry/win games. also being a tank is a huge plus in ranked imo.
Pick whatever choice you feel most comfortable with, and if you're confident at all 3, you can play whatever the team needs. In my personal opinion you should play whatever the team needs, but it's your decision not mine.
Thank you guys for the help, was struggling pretty hard on who to play.  :)
Honestly, if you want to climb I would just flex and play what the team needs. I was stuck in low masters last season because I would only play DPS. This season I decided to try flexing and making sure we have a good team comp and my team mates were comfortable with their roles and now I'm only 100 points off of Grandmaster. Otherwise, just play what you enjoy. 
Jesus man ur like Master, do you at this point cant figure out what you like to play or what? Or you cant make self compromise to play for yourself or your team? Well my advice would be play DD, coz  I Personally like to play DD and cant for the love of god understand whats the Hype about Sups and Tanks is.  
this is the problem with 90% of the ovrerwatch community. they have no idea what heroes are good in what situations and on which maps. this applies to all ranks.

Tank Discussion: When is it best to use Zarya over Rein? And/or Rein over Zarya?
I have been trying to find the best situation between the two in the latest comp. just trying to learn when I should use either of them. Thank you![deleted]
They are not interchangeable in a team comp. Zarya is an off-tank and Rein is a main tank
zarya + rein make the best duo

zarya and rein depend on the map since they cannot go highground

good maps for zarya and rein are kings row, dorado, nepal, lijang, eichenwalde, hollywood

bad ones are all maps were you have to contest highground so numbani, anubis first, volskya second, route 66, gibraltar(worst map with numbani imo), illios(widow on ruins, dangerous well for zarya, lighthouse ok)
Zarya combos excellently with Rein and Winston, she's more of an off tank. Orisa and D.Va are harder to build charge off of, but with good comms are fine partners too. Don't go Hog/Zarya unless you have a Rein/Orisa too and just trip tank it.

For Rein, make sure your team are gonna use your shield. Hog, McCree, Zen, Ana, Soldier? Go for it. Tracer, Genji, Winston, Lucio, Mercy? Probably best to hop onto D.Va or Zarya.
Winston if solo tank attack, rein solo tank defense, rein if someone picks hog, zarya if someone picks a MT or dva (sometimes attack preferable). 
Check your team comp.  if most of none of your team are going to be standing behind your shield, then don't use Rein.
flankers and flyers don't need Rein: genji, hanzo, widow, tracer, pharah, Lucio, mercy, sombra.  
Your last sentence is incredibly important. Meta is best when it matches your current skill set. Flexibility, communication and being honest about your skill set trump blindly following any meta. 
Incorrect. Extremly incorrect.

A possible change to Hanzo
Most of the complaints I see about Hanzo either have to do with his ability to one shot with scatter, or his team assuming he isn't contributing to the fight. As someone who plays quite a bit of Hanzo, I can understand why people complain about both of these. People complained about Roadhog's ability to one shot, so it seems natural that Hanzo's ability wouldn't be any different. Also if his team doesn't see him frequently in the killfeed, most blame will be bestowed upon him if the team loses. 

A possible, somewhat simple fix to both of these things would be to switch the cooldowns of his scatter and sonic arrows. 

Now I would assume at this point many Hanzo mains have probably downvoted but hear me out. 

The cooldown of sonic arrow is currently 20 seconds, with a 10 second active time. The cooldown of scatter is currently 10 seconds. This would mean that you can constantly have a sonic arrow up for your team. Basically, with a well placed arrow every 10 seconds, your roadhog can get easy hooks, widow can get easy headshots etc. 

Making the cooldown of scatter longer would make it less of an instant kill button, but instead a security option to deal with flankers. I know I have certainly relied on it a bit too often to secure kills. Doing this would force Hanzo's to focus more on aim. 

Doing both of these things would simultaneously make Hanzo a higher skill cap hero, along with promoting teamplay. Reducing the chance to get one shotted by a "bullshit" scatter while also making your team realize how important your sonic arrow is could make Hanzo less hated by both teams. 

In the pro scene, he is rarely seen due to his high risk high reward factor. With this proposed change he could fill a more "sniper scout" role rather than an awkward midrange scatter duelist role. With his sonic arrow constantly up, he can hit easier headshots while also giving his team information.

TL;DR: Swap the cooldowns for sonic and scatter arrow to promote teamplay and reduce scatter oneshots

I'm curious to see what you guys think of this, as I know scatter/Hanzo seems to be very frustrating to the community. I'm not fond of sonic arrow either, as it has very little tell. When widow has wall hacks or you trip venom mine, you know that the enemy can see you, so you know not to peek. Sonic arrow has an indistinguishable sound from a regular arrow, and in the upper echelons of play can lead to frustrating deaths with some consistency.

Certainly, many people would be interested in a Hanzo rework, but it would probably need to be more than a tweaking of numbers to be worthwhile.
I might be totally wrong but I could swear sonic arrow has a sound que when it hits anything. Like a really faint "bdring" noise  (I don't know how to describe it) This might just be for the hanzo that fired it though. 
isnt it time to learn how to play against hanzo instead of passively waiting for a change?

Would make Hanzo a bit too strong, imo. Anybody worth their money with Hanzo will then not 'scatter kill' targets but allow for a high dmg low skill floor char to go in and go ham. Sure it would increase his team use, but it is a bad game play mechanic (like the current scatter), just being a 'mobile wall hack'. 

I play a lot of Hanzo myself in QP (don't touch him much in comp cause people get satly/toss), so I'd say they need to rework his scatter: 150 maximum dmg, but way more frags that bounce way more often. It would mean:

1. Scattering on an open field seriously hurts enemies but doesn't instagib. 

2. Tanks who tend to have armor cannot be instagibbed due to more frags with each less dmg. 

3. Scattering corridors would be more rewarding due to increased bounce (but not an instagib except on wounded enemies). 

4. Scatter can be used more reliably to kill targets behind corners who aren't full HP (trying to flee or self heal). 

5. Scatters can still take out diving tracers meani g you aren't defensless up close.
The only thing I could think of regarding this would be if he called out "see through the dragon's eyes" to both teams, like how sombra yells when she exits stealth. 
It definitely makes the noise for enemies, whenever we're against a Hanzo I make a point of listening for it so I can let my team know where the other team has wall hacks. It's kind of like a high pitched gong sound I think? Really quiet though. 
It's not just that, it's the fact that your team flames you before the round even starts if you pick him (in many tiers). Some sort of change to make him more acceptable in general was the idea. 

Even without Scatter Hanzo is far from defensless against Tracer. It only takes bodyshot+melee to kill her. Flick-headsots happen way more often than one would expect thanks to hitboxes. Overall, it's better to avoid Hanzo as Tracer.
That'd be a huge nerf as a lot of Hanzo value comes from being able to vaporize tanks. It's so less than a headshot...why would ever use it
Widow's eyes are global, though. And if Hanzo has 100% uptime on Sonic then an audio cue when he shoots it is kind of pointless. I think a sonar ping sound coming from the arrow would be a good indicator. Nothing too loud, but noticeable if you are within the are of it.
why do you care if the team flames you, just prove them wrong. and if you arent confident to do that why are you picking him. No matter how good you will be there will always be a guy who will find excuses to flame you
I agree. It was more meant to reassure the no aim Hanzos who'd cry about being dove to death by cheerful lesbians.
Because chars that require mechanical skill to do high dmg are a good thing for the game...?
That's a good idea. Hanzo himself can also see a sonar effect around the arrow itself, if the enemy could see that it would also make sense. Currently I don't think they have any way of knowing if an arrow is sonic or not. 
Can you destroy a sonic arrow to remove its effects?
It would simply be an unused ability, he already does lol. If he was so easy to play you'd see Hanzo proliferate more
It is visually slightly different. That's it.
This would completely change the way the opposing team deals with Hanzo too. Especially with a short(say 12 second) cooldown, he would be providing both enemy ult charge(if given a health bar), and something else to shoot at, other than teammates. I kinda like the idea. 
You'd actually only use scatter as a defensive skill or to punish poor positioning tho...:)
You don't get ult charge from damaging deployables, like torb turret or junk trap.

I often use a trap to deny sym ult charge as I destroy turrets. 
Why at 150 damage it isn't worth using. Hanzo would be a completely free kill for like 90% of the roster without scatter.

Widow does 350 a headshot, Hanzo does 450ish on a 10 second cool down, don't see the problem
Hanzo is not a long range sniper like Widow (also her max dmg is 300, not 350 but that is relatively irrelevant). He is more mid range which is why his head shot multiplier is 'only' 2. His Storm Bow does max 125 dmg, but with the hs multiplier his hs dmg results in 250, so he can instant kill any squishy (if you're skilled enough to aim with him).

A scatter that does 150 dmg and requires less aim than even going for a body shot is still more damaging than a fully charged body shot (125 dmg) and easier to use. It would ensure people stop scatter shotting across the map (cause no instagib) and merely use it as a defensive ability, especially if there were more frags that bounce more, making Hanzo harder to dive. 

But to come back to your initial message: Hanzo does 250 dmg on a roughly 1s cd (same logic as Widow doing 300 dmg/shot always), 450 additional dmg on a 10s cd that is somewhat easy to use. He is not supposed to be a tank shredder, that is Reaper or in some ways even Cree. That is why as a Hanzo player I even admit to Hanzos scatter being unfun.
Hitting a body shot is roughly the same as hitting a scatter imo. A good Hanzo punishes a Winston that dives him (or any tank that matter) with scatter. How is a shitty 150 arrow going to deter dive.

 I think it's fun as hell exploding people from afar. 

He isn't a tank shredder at all, you can occasionally kill a tank that has no CD and isn't receiving heals or help, that's fair.

Reaper can kill you through heals and fairly easily all things considered.
Because you don't even need scatter to punish a diving Winston as is atm. Divers with smaller hitboxes are the issue, like Tracer. And here a 150dmg scatter is perfect. 

Exploding them is fun but that really wasn't the intention of scatter. 

He works as a tank shredder atm tho, with his scatter. Draining 450 hp off a tank in one shot is way over the top on an 8s cd. Heals or not, jf I have scatter off cd and see a Zarya or Orisa, they get instagibbed, even with healing and usually with shields too. Only shield that really reliably protects from that is Winstons bubble. So no, as smb who plays a lot of Hanzo, it isn't fair and it is the reason he gets so much hate. 

Reaper should be able to shredd tanks...

How high can I climb with poor aim?
Do you think it's possible to get to master or higher on ps4 having sub par aim?

I am mainly a tank/support main but I dabble in genji. Currently at mid diamond, I wonder at what point my below average aim will start hurting my chances at climbing. Aim has never really been key, as I mainly play Winston, dva and lucio, but I'm curious as to what you guys think. N.B. I'm aware that being on console helps, before you ask.https://clips.twitch.tv/AmazingBetterScorpionRalpherZ

This guy is a Winston/Tank main on PC and in Top500. So, yes, I think you can climb with poor aim as long as there are other heroes you're good with.
Tank and Support mains can climb with good game sense
Aim can be improved
Reinhardt main currently 4.3k. Yes, you can climb easily even with poor aim. I would say that my aiming is mid-diamond level at best.
Winston/Pharah main 4k past 2 seasons.

My aim is shit. 
Projectile heroes like Junk and Pharah are actually very good even when your aim aint so good, prediction and splash damage can somehow substitute for the lack of pin-point accuracy, this is taken from personal experience, im like Plat Cree/Widow/Soldier etc and can comfortably play Pharah in Master.
Overwatch demands for several skill.

Aiming is one of it.

But being a good shotcaller, teamplayer, Motivator, have excellent situational awareness, can move well, can walk the map backwards without getting stuck...... you might get very far without.
I made GM playing a heavy dose of Winston/Rein. No aim required for those two, just good gamesense.
If you play mercy, high
he has a soloq dps account that hit 4200 lol. but yes you can still climb as winston without aim
Pc or console?
Pc or console? 
The day I play mercy....
PC, so I'm not sure how much it applies

How do i convince my team to MOVE
As a kind-of-tank-main there is nothing more frustrating, than the poke at the choke situation. We are in the spam meta, spamzos, junks and syms are going to punish you for standing around in places with fast charging ultimates. They are build for denying space, so there is no choice than moving through the space they deny as quickly as possible, if there is no other way around.
When i try to create space without my team following me, i am only feeding the enemy ultimate charge. I think that is one of the many reasons why people stopped playing tanks. When you just have squishies hiding in cover from the enemy spam instead of doing... something... then why should i be the bullet sponge for them? Tell me what you think about my little rant, how do you experience teams with little to no intetion on engaging the enemy? How do you deal with that?

Edit: I usually use the voice chat to tell my taem, that i am about to go in. But i play on eu in platinum, where there is little to no communication. Often its only my duo, one other dude and me in the voice chat. you pick winston and jump into the choke and tell your team to go in
Play the I like to move it song over voice chat to boost team morale. Would work best as Lucio.
When I play Rein I push in no matter what (because better push in and die then standing at the choke for 2min). As support I see sometimes people stand too long at chokes. Specialy when there is no shieldtank and no luciospeed.

In this situation I try to tell we need speed and/or a shield. If we don't get any switched I may switch myself at 2min left. 

>  then why should i be the bullet sponge for them?
Well if you can switch and do more on for example a Pharah, do it. But if you just change because "meh.. why should I do anything when you don't do anything".. thats something I dont like. (Had once a Rein in Team with Golddamage that complained that noone is doing something and switched to Junk and we lost. Rein worked.. so 1. why change? 2. He got nanoboost and Mercy damage boost all time, its kinda obvious he had golddamage)
If nobody is in voice, the easiest way to force your team to push is to pop an ult, no matter how awful it might be - that usually gets them going. Just be careful about it.
Man, I'm not really a fan communication. I think it's a bit overrated and sometimes downright tilting. But this is exactly where communication shines. Scream in your mic "MOVE-MOVE-MOVE-FOLLOW-ME-WE-GOING-RIGHT-GOGOGO" and they will (sometimes) move.  

Ana nanoboost
"alright y'all, I'm goin in on three, come with me if you want to live - 1 2 3 gogogogogogo"

Or you can just go get on the enemy point  to make the enemy turn and give your teammates an obvious opening 
walk backwards onto the point as mercy spamming group up while alternating healing and damage boosting /s but not really /s since it's what it took to move my teammates from the anubis A main choke a few games ago...

The only advice I have is to be, whithin reason, way more aggressive than you usually would be, while also helping your teammates to follow you as well. 

Lucio can sppedboost through a chokepoint, Mei can create a safe passage with her wall, Zarya can bubble a diving teammate to support them, Winston/Tracer/Genji/Sombra can dive onto the objective to force at least some of the enemies to focus them and this opens opportunities for your team.  It helps if you're in team chat so that your teammates know what you are planning on doing. 
I just act like a school bus, wait at corner, do head count, yup all here, time to go or oh shit Jimmy is playing with the Dinosaur exhibit, go go go. I might push F then rush in. 
Using your ultimate, whatever it is, generally causes a reaction.
Platinum and below is definitely poke at the choke level. I'd suggest winston and call out before you jump like "jumping in 3-2-1" maybe add a 'back me up' in there or something. 
Its a big issue anywhere really, people dont want to move unless there is a pick. and there are those who dont capitalize at all on picks
The lack of aggression in this game is infuriating. I hate when people are fighting on the point and you have a teamate back at the choke spamming group up. And continuing to spam group up when their 5th teamate walks by. It's annoying to lose simply because someone is waiting for the stars to align.
Stand in front of them, look straight into their eyes, and teabag. Communicating in video games 101
Be belligerent on voice comms.  Speak with confidence.  Use declarative language, and give your team a mini-objective (such as ground to take or a hero to kill).  

Still doesn't work all the time, but it will work a greater percentage of the time. 
Sometimes ulting can cause players to "wake" up and follow through.
I am not sure. I rarely play tank, but go for damage dealing or support usually. But when I have a team that just won't move forward and make a push, I usually switch and try to flank to disrupt their defenses enough that my team sees obvious openings to advance and hope they take those. Often times, it means I die, but it also often leads to my teams tanks finally daring to make a move. I find Sombra can work pretty well at those times.
"push"
If they're on voice chat, count down from 5.  "Alright guys, when I say go, we're all going to jump in, whether it looks like a good idea or not.  5, 4, 3--" *gets scatter-arrow'd*

On second thought, count down from 3.
Rather than initiating the dive yourself, sometimes it works to wait until your team decide to move in and dive with them. Good game sense allows you to “read” what you’re team is going to do and prepare yourself accordingly. 
Pick rein Zarya and ana and do the shotgun techniques over and over for an ez win
Spam "group up" and charge the fuck in. I'll often throw a wall up at an angle that gives us a route past the defenders. Like on eichenwald I'll make a little path to the computer store or on hanamura I'll make a little path to the building on the right. 
Agreed, cept jump past the choke
Thats how i got to master, lol. Previously mid plat.
I think communication is the best way to prevent tilting. If you are constantly calling out who is damaged or dead and what is causing you troubles your team is less likely to tilt cause they know what you're doing. Also screaming follow me is exactly why your team tilts. Suggest that everyone goes right when there is an opening and if someone sees an opening to call it out.
I keep counting picks, while announcing we should push after the second pick. When there are two enemies on respawn i´ll go with "MOVE-MOVE-MOVE-FOLLOW-ME-WE-GOING-RIGHT-GOGOGO"

works more often then not.
That really depends on the situation. If you're attacking point B on a 2cp map and your team is trickling, the guy spamming group up is 100% in the right.
May or may not result in dead Winston
If you're only pushing when you have 2 picks, I'd be surprised if the push failed (unless they have res/tp)
I do this a lot and it works most of the time. Even with one pick I'll usually say "we're one man up lets push" and just go in. This usually works pretty well in mid gold.
I hear ya. It's when the whole team is in the fight... also maybe mercy is saying "die on the point". And I play sombra most often - grouped up with my team is almost never where I want to be.

McCree/Reaper Low Plat VOD Review Request + Question
Hi, [this] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QbVrv-_G5Fo) is my second or third VOD review request, for those who can't watch, it is about 17 minutes long with music and a friend in Discord chat, so if you don't feel like reviewing, you don't have to. Instead I have a general question: How should I be pushing first point on Route 66 as McCree? Or Hanamura first point? Both of them don't seem to have a beneficial high ground and there's not a lot of angles for me to get my shots in. Thanks for any responses!tl;dr bad positioning everywhere


on the first push 0:38, youre standing too far forward/bad positioning. 

the payload is up in your face, you limit your own peripheral vision. either stand further back for more sightlines or commit to the high ground (top left on the cliffs). 

as a result, you couldnt see who's behind you (which was reaper) and you died. 

1:15 again death by bad positioning. 

2:07 bad positioning #3. your ana nano'd you trying to force a play. but you make the play, not the ana. you know how bad dead eye is but you tried to make use out of the nano. it failed, you took wayy to much damage from being in front of the rein and died. 

Im not a mccree main but maybe you can explain this to me: 

you keep risking your life to flash the rein and failing. not sure why. whats the plan? you flash him, pop him twice in the head and he gets healed up? you need to see if your rein has shatter if you want to flash enemy rein. 

most mccree i see usually FtH + roll + FtH when facing a rein. That's an instant 840 damage on the enemy rein shield in a second. 

~3:00. again bad positioning. you took out the turrent 10 seconds ago so you know the high ground is safe. go up there and be safe from reaper, be safe from torb and click on heads. 

from big earl's to the mega health pack in the garage, you just stood behind the payload. 1) you dont need to be there, your team is pushing and 2) you're blocking your own line of sight. you cant see shit. use this down time to get to high ground. 

4:49. again youre blocking your own line of sight. you know the enemy will be coming from the right. 

on the final push, you positioned better. you stood behind the rein shield, safe from damage. and then you took the high ground on the truck and got a sweet 3k dead eye. 

this was the worst positioning at the worst possible time: http://i.imgur.com/8ywPZxK.png

you stood like that for like 10 seconds. you cant see anybody coming from the left door, the right door, behind you, nothing. if you died here and your team failed the final push, you just threw the game. 

no comments on your reaper cuz I got lazy and stopped watching. but I hope this helps your mccree. hopefully i didnt come off too harsh on you here but you need to understand just how bad your mccree positioning was in this video. 
Actually, thank you! I've heard a lot about positioning in terms of "Oh #1 Mistake of all Plats: You wouldn't BELIEVE how much these guys fucked up" but I've never actually been able to see it. I have a question though, does FTH x 2 actually do that much damage to a Rein shield? I thought FTH would do roughly only half of that number.   But huge appreciation for the comment, yo. I guess I'll check out the high ground more often then, as I usually take McCree as a "escort the payload" type of dude.
Im not a mccree main so you can double check my numbers if you want but afaik, I see a lot of mccree do FtH roll FtH and it just melts barriers in a second. 

And mccree can be the dude pushing the payload if you have aggressive tanks. for example if you rein was wayyy forward, sure. be on the payload
FTH does 270 damage
 


Edit: Corrected FTH damage value 

Can I be good at Genji and McCree at the same time?
Hi. I'm a plat Genji main (111h) and I've been looking to pick up McCree. I gave up on my dream to become an ok Widow after 40h on her and still 30% aim. My McCree aim is 35% after 34h. But I still mostly play Genji. I'm not sure if it's possible for me to have good close range aim, and long range aim. After a lot of failed aim training, I just can't imagine myself having good aim. I played this game for over a year for 600+ hours, and I'm still plat (dipped into diamond in s4)

masteroverwatch.com/profile/pc/eu/arrrek6-2985I think this is well in the realm of the possibility. I can't say for you specifically, but Genji, McCree, and Widow are all pretty heavy flick aimers. There's definitely a lot of translatable skill between them. 

As you noted, a large difference between them is the ranges they fight at. But I think there's another difference you're not accounting for. Genji has a lot of spread on his shuriken (and their hit boxes are quite large), so it's just easier to land hits with him. Coupled with his escape and maneuverability, he's just an easier hero to live long enough on to have an impact, even if you're aim is sub-par. I bet that's all it is - you live longer playing Genji than on McCree and your aim is good enough to land shurikens at close range. Widow is her own can of worms that I think is best overlooked. 

If you want to get better at McCree, then try playing more slowly with him. That is to say, don't shoot your gun as fast as it fires. Make sure to line up each shot and then pull the trigger. Deathmatch is great for this. Just go in there and practice. Give yourself a challenge: Don't miss more than twice per clip. If you take your time between shots, you'll get better. Most players are too focused on "CRAZY TWITCH AIM" and "TAIMOU FLICKS" but you need to work your way up to that. The best way is to just slowly train your muscles up to it.
I honestly think no one is truly BAD at aiming, it's kinda up to your brain getting used to sensitivity and doing the flicks for you. The only way you can actually make this worse is if you have input lag, bad fps, etc. Just warm up a fair amount and your aim shouldn't be that bad. Again, this is just my opinion. 

Source: Don't think it matters but I am a GM genji main, mained genji since s1. 
I'm just gold, so no idea how much you value my opinion, but my 3 main dps heroes are widow, mccree and genji. 3 entirely different methods of aiming and very different mobility, but it works for me. I think practice makes it all possible.
There is no reason this would not be possible. However you have to keep in mind that these heroes have very contradictory kits and require different skillsets. 

Genji is high mobility cooldown-based hero with slowish projectiles, mostly effective at close range and heavily relies on his Ultimate. McCree is low-mobility medium range hitscan hero that loves to stay close to his team and generally happy to survive after ulting. You probably need different mindsets for playing them.

Also, your accuracy % on Widow/McCree seems a bit low. What is your DPI and mouse sens? It could be too high as Genji benefits from high sens while Widow/McCree require low sens to be effective.
Im a high elo genji  main and my second best hero is mccree by far. I literally put 0 practice in him and practice tracer a decent amount to make sure I can play her but my mccree is still much better. I hardly play soldier since my flicks are better than my tracking. Also I  can't play widow either, you should try lowering your sense maybe but its definitely possible to be good at both heroes (I would even say its normal to be good at both heroes).
Hi. I'm a plat Genji (111hp) and I need healing.

Is how I read this the first time.
I tried deathmatch, but I gave up cause all the tracers and genjis are destroying me. Even if I somehow magically flashbang them, they are impossible to hit in such a short amount of time. And if I can't hit them standing still, I for sure won't hit them blinking and double jumping. Widowmakers are annoying too, cause they just counter me. 
I'm at 2000 DPI, 3.5 sens
It sounds like this is a mechanical problem then. You really need to just buckle down and focus on your aim. You should have plenty of time after landing a flashbang to get a headshot. You need to persevere and work on your aim. 

A quick thing you can do is to make sure your mouse sensitivity is set to something that's comfortable for you. I know that when I got serious I learned that my mouse sens was about twice as high as I actually needed.
The best advice I can give you for McCree is learning how to get the most out of his gun. Figure out the limitations of McCree's fall off damage and where you feel most comfortable aiming his gun. Once you understand that, you'll be able to find positions you can safely shoot at the red team while maximizing your damage output.
That sounds like a good sens for Genji. Normally McCree and Widow players would prefer about twice as low, sometimes even lower.
McCree main here, around 56% accuracy. That is definitely very high for him. I play 1600DPI with 3 sens which seems to work pretty well, hope that helps!

WBC Ascension Tournament
##WBC Ascension: Open Overwatch Tournament

---

####[Wawa's Boot Camp](https://discord.gg/wawasbootcamp) is hosting its second official tournament! [Registration](https://thegamerwall.com/games/index/tournament?tournamentid=6776) is open to all teams.

*Info:*

- Sep 23 - 24 @3pm EST

- Tournament will be [streamed](https://twitch.tv/wawasbootcamp) and casted by [Heurix](http://wiki.teamliquid.net/overwatch/Heurix) and Storm

- Top 2 teams will be invited to our invite-only $1,000 October tournament with notable professional teams

*Prize:*

- 1st place: Choice between $200 or 6 [HyperX Singer Headsets](https://www.amazon.com/HyperX-Stinger-Headset-HX-HSCS-BK-NA/dp/B01L2ZRYVE) ($300 value) & invitation to $1K tourney

- 2nd place: $200 or 6 HyperX Singer Headsets & invitation to $1K tourney

&nbsp;

Register [**here**]
(https://thegamerwall.com/games/index/tournament?tournamentid=6776)

---

[Discord](https://discord.gg/wawasbootcamp) | [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/wawabootcamp/)
 | [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCWeFuQPlENjBlyFoe6OFP7A) | [Twitter](https://twitter.com/wawasbootcamp) | [Twitch](https://twitch.tv/wawasbootcamp)
Tracer ult management vs simmetra ult
Hi i´m a tracer main (flex). Because there is always room for improovement i´d like to discuss and ask for advice regarding the use of the Tracer ult to counter the teleporter(TP) and/or shieldGen(SG).
1)Is it viable?
2)is it convenient? 
3)is this Tracer´s responsibility?
4)are there better ways to rid your team of that threat?
5)should tracer "scout" the surroundings looking for the TP/SG instead of keep harassing the healers and the backline?

any information you may add regarding this questions or not would be appreciated, thanks. >1)Is it viable? 2)is it convenient?

So it depends. If you can take it out without your ult, then obviously do so. A lot of the time though you are diving through a ton of defenses and the 2+ second ttk on the tele is too long. In this situation, pulse+recall is the way to go. You need to coordinate with your team though because if they don't push, Symettra can charge it up again pretty fast.

>3)is this Tracer´s responsibility

Yes. Tracer and sombra are probably the 2 best tele/shield gen hunters in the game. They are the only heroes that can go deep into the backline and still have a safe/semi-safe exit plan.

>5)should tracer "scout" the surroundings looking for the TP/SG instead of keep harassing the healers and the backline?

Depends. If the shield gen/tp have been giving your team trouble, then yes. Scouting and killing it will allow a window for your team to push through them. If your team has been constantly steamrolling over them, then continuing the steam roll is probably a good idea. That said, TP and SG are both great mechanics for slowing a steamroll, so I would probably still hunt them down.
On maps where the Teleporter or Shield Generator is unlikely to be on hard to reach high ground for Tracer, she's a pretty good candidate to get rid of it, and it's definitely worth hunting it down unless guarded heavily. On high ground Genji, Pharah, Winston, and D.Va are OK for getting rid of it as well, but Tracer's definitely on the short list for TP hunters. It should rarely take very long to find; it's loud, glows, and there's only so many good places to hide it.

Generally pulse bomb is an OK trade for this. Ideally you can just shoot it; it only takes two clips (3 seconds) to kill, so assuming it's out of the way in the backlines somewhere you've usually got enough time to use the guns. But if enemies are respawning or you're being chased then just drop the bomb and flee.
I only use a pulse bomb on shield gen/teleporter if (a) the whole area is filthy with turrets in a very narrow space and I want to get in and out without any risk (b) more than one person is protecting it or (c) multiple people are coming out of the teleporter together. If none of the above apply, it's probably best to save that pulse bomb for a backline pick when you circle back to the main battle.
This is the best answer. Pulse bomb also charges a lot faster than Symm's ults and killing Symm's ult will often be enough to force her to switch off.

Think of it this way - killing a shield gen is the same as doing 450 damage to the enemy team and killing a healer. Killing a TP is similar to killing 6 heroes.
>  Ideally you can just shoot it; it only takes two clips (3 seconds) to kill, so assuming it's out of the way in the backlines somewhere you've usually got enough time to use the guns. But if enemies are respawning or you're being chased then just drop the bomb and flee.

Thank you very much for your insight, i alluded to using tracer´s ult against TP/SG mostly because sym turrets can be a pain in the ass when guarding the TP/SG... some are cleaverly disguised, or put in a design that forces you to aim everywhere in order to kill them. So in this manner is faster than 2 clipping. Clip+ult+recall and you could ignore (with any luck) the turrets. Is this solution advisable or is better to approach with caution kill the turrets first and then 2clip the tp?
> Is this solution advisable or is better to approach with caution kill the turrets first and then 2clip the tp?

It all depends on how much time you have and where the enemy is. If you have time to shoot all the turrets and 2 clip the TP, then go for it. If you needed to blink dump through the enemy team and turrets to get to the tp though, then pulse bomb is definitely the way to go.

How do I find out what my level is?
This season so far has been really confusing. Before I can explain why I have to give you a quick history on my competitive play:

I started at the beginning of season 2. I never really played fps games seriously before so I wasnt that good. I started in low gold and stayed there pretty much. Season 3 was a bit better, got placed in high silver but started playing with diamond and high plat players who would teach me stuff and I would play at their level. I ended high gold I think. Season 4 was weird. I got placed mid silver (!!!!!!!) but after a long and  very very tedious climb I got up to platinum with a winrate of 65%. In season 5 I didn't have to much time to play so I got placed in high gold, pretty much stayed there for the whole season without playing too much, then the last two weeks I started playing more again since my schedule allowed it but it was a complete hell, everybody was super toxic, like screaming against the team toxic. I dropped 300 SR in two days I think.

So here comes my confusion. I did my placements for season 6, I trained a bit before starting, I did my placements with solo queue and me and my team got rolled 9/10 games. Completely one sided. I was only playing tank or support and no matter what hero I played I would have the highest stats of my team in every way possible. It was not necessarilly toxic (also because I'm a very timid person and try to not engage with angry people) but i just straight up lost every time. Now I'm at high silver again. Although I'm giving it my all, it feels like there's not impact whatsoever. It just feels like a coin flip. I'm not good enough to carry. But also I also feel im way better than most of the players I'm playing with. I know that sounds cliché, but people generally don't have game sense in silver.

My question is: how do I know what rank I should be at? Because I honestly believe the system doesn't really work in lower tiers. How can I know what to strive for? 


And then another important question: How can you turn the tide on a completely disorganized silver game? 

Some basic information about what I play:
I'm mostly a flex player. My best heroes from top to bottom are: Zarya, zenyatta, Torbjorn, Winston, Lucio, soldier.
If you can't carry, you are at the correct rank.

Remember the 40/40/20 rule: when you're around the correct rank, 40% of your games your team will get rolled and there's nothing you can do. 40% of your games, you will roll the enemy team and there's no way you could lose. It's only in that remaining 20% where you can actually make a difference between win and loss -- 1 in 5 games.

Placement matches are also just weird. Some people go 1:9 and get placed in GM. Some people go 10:0 and get placed in bronze. Your personal play seems to matter more than your actual winrate, in those.
If you've played with diamond and high plat players you know how important communication is, especially for a support when you're in the back line. You literally have the ability to see everything, and you should be calling out what you see, even if that means you have to be assertive. 

I'm a timid person, I always have been, but when it comes to playing, I make sure that I'm calling out which enemy teammates are where. There is a huge difference in between saying 

"there is an enemy genji behind" and "there is an enemy genji on mercy, I need help"

The first statement only states that there is an enemy behind the line, it doesn't tell your DPS or tanks who you are, and what is going on back there. The second statement lets your DPS know who you are, and that you are in need of help. Especially in a low rank like silver, it is important that you explain exactly what you need and want of your DPS and tanks to be successful. 

The system does work in lower tiers. It is possible to turn the tide of a disorganized team, and it is possible to flex well enough to deal with the issues the rest of the team puts forth. If you feel like you've been having problems though, I would recommend building a premade. It will take the guess work out of what kind of players you'll get on your team. 


The key to turning the tide in a disorganized game is to stay positive. Your team will implode if you rage and bitch. People will argue and that will be that (it happens literally at all tiers and I've had more luck instilling positivity into matches over negativity). Don't let the trolls get to you, take charge and make your teammates group up and push together or peel for you when you are supporting and need help. it is possible to take a team of disorganization and turn it into something cohesive, it just takes work. 


I would also recommend doing a VOD for others to review, it can help you see where you need to improve, which is much more helpful than generic advice. 
Its fairly easy to tell whats your Real Level is, Play 50 Comp games and find out, even better to play bigger sample, for example 100 games, but even 50 games can give you fairly clear picture at where you at. There is no point in speculating and guessing it, even so called Elo-Hell is speculation, i may as well say "well my rank is probably GM even thou i stuck in Diamond, my Wife and Job holds me back, but i feel im actually performing well & stuff, so does that mean i already can call myself GM?" 
You look at your current rank and say, "that's where I deserve to be"
> Placement matches are also just weird. Some people go 1:9 and get placed in GM. Some people go 10:0 and get placed in bronze. 

That isn't weird FFS, a 1-9 record against GM is not comparable to a 10-0 record against Bronze... You will be placed close to the relative level of your games it is that simple to understand.
I don't think that's the case. If you take the 40-40-20 rule, which is even less reliable in lower ranks. Than with 50 games you could gain a maximum of 250 SR. That would not even bring me half way of what I was in season 4, see what I'm getting at? It's impossible to win every game even if you're a full tier better than your teammates. 
Now factor in performance based sr gain for a +5 for all win+loss combinations(can be even more if you are as amazing as you claim). And then we're up to another 100. I also feel the 40/40/20 rule is a bit bs as you have a miriad of opportunities to make plays and if you use them all you're going to have a bigger impact than just 20% of your games.

Is melee worth your time on D.Va?
I've been playing a lot of the new D.Va on PTR in preparation of her inevitable release; I'm loving being able to shoot while boosting, but I've been wondering if punching at the end of a dive is better or worse DPS than simply continuing to shoot.

Playing around with target dummies, it seems like I can do more damage simply continuing to hold fire over the same duration that a Melee attack takes to hit; but, I don't know the actual numbers and timings involved. I see people mentioning finishing off with a punch all the time, though; am I just misunderstanding something here?

**PS:** I'm aware that Melee has a huge, and forgiving hit box. So in situations where the target moves out of view, it could be a lot safer to finish them off with Melee. I'm only curious about raw DPS against a stationary target that's in Melee range.booster + melee is bread and butter dva
D.Va melees usually 

after boosting. Even With new D.Va you sill got the burstdamage due to this and better controll where to end your boost. 

to finish of an enemy (like basically everyone else) If the target has 30 health left you kill it faster with melee. If it has 31+ left you kill it faster with your guns.
I only use melee when I hit someone with the booster to increase the dps, because usually people use melee at the end of the magazine but d.va has infinite ammo

Like Winston melee is only good as a finisher in my experience. Always better so stop your boost with left click instead. After the upcoming changes melee will make even less sense. 
Situational, but I love baiting out a Genji deflect then ramming into him with melee.
I see this touted a lot, but can you give me some damage and cooldown/timing numbers? I'm looking for empirical data, not word of mouth (this is OW University, after all).

I know Melee does 30 damage, but, how much time does it take for that damage to register, how long is the cooldown after melee before you can fire/melee again, how many bullets does D.Va shoot per shot, how much damage per bullet (assuming no falloff), and what's the cooldown between shots?
The combo of dive + melee to get Tracer down to half?
Doesn't genji block Melee damage?
it doesent damage him, the boosters do
boosters 25 and it does more damage than shooting in that time i think
It's about the burst damage more than raw dps. You can instantly deal 55 damage with that combo just like the Winston jump+punch. The quick burst prevents the healers from saving their teammate. Plus the 55 burst makes it take less time to finish off a target with her sustained damage.

Plus there's the damage lost due to aim and RNG. If you can't hit your shots or the person you're shooting is too close to track well just punch the shit out of them for guaranteed damage. 

I'm not surewhat empirical data you'd like, but I can tell you from experience DVa's guns cannot do 55 damage in a single shot.
Correct, because the combo of diva + tesla is superior
Does he? I thought it worked just like DM and only blocked projectiles.
I always thought it did, but I could very well be wrong.
There is a large cooldown after performing a melee attack before you can do either another melee attack or her primary fire, though. I don't know what the actual numbers are, but let's say it takes X seconds from when you activate melee until you can perform another action. What I'm curious about is how much damage her primary fire can do against a stationary target and no falloff in that same X amount of time, assuming you hit all pellets, and accounting for the fact that you can't do a "half shot".

The basic question I'm wondering is: assuming boost + melee damage is not enough to kill your target outright (say, a full health widow), is it optimal DPS to stop your flight using shift and start/continue firing, or melee and start firing? If the answer to the previous paragraph's question is that melee will always do more damage than hitting shift and firing in the X amount of time a full melee attack takes, then stopping with a melee is always optimal. If, however, under ideal conditions, primary fire can do more damage in that X amount of time, then stopping with melee is not always the correct play.

I find it hard to believe scenario 2 isn't the case, though, because that would mean simply punching over and over is optimal, which sounds ridiculous. This seems to suggest to me that an optimal dive would be: Boost, fire while you approach, stop with shift, fire until the target has 30 or less HP, then finally melee. It seems like people are suggesting to stop with melee and interrupt your firing though, and that's what I'm questioning the logic of.

Hopefully my question makes more sense now =)

**PS:** Winston isn't quite comparable, because IIRC, you can cancel his punching animation if you time it correctly with the leap landing, meaning that first melee attack is faster than subsequent ones. As far as I know, D.Va has no such animation canceling interaction.
He does deflect it. But he does not reflect it. So meleeing might end in things like.

Doing nothing because he blocked it.

Hitting anyone jumping into your face.

Hitting Genji who aborted the deflect.

So no harm done if you melee but possible benefit if you do.
100% wrong, genji can even block rein hammer
Honestly, you can get that theoretical if you'd like. I just don't think theoretical perfect point blank tracking is worth all of this effort. No one is able to perfectly track that close, plus the spread is random which makes calculating crits and misses ever more impossible.

Don't over think it 
Yeah, I just looked it up. I feel so cheated now.
I don't think anything can ever be over thought =) I also believe that yes, people can achieve perfect point blank tracking - it's no different than any other skill professionals take to the extreme (like, say, headshotting). Especially when you consider that some targets are large enough that you're basically guaranteed to hit every pellet while in Melee range.

Granted, it's situational and skill based, and you need to judge in the moment whether stopping with Melee or Shift will be optimal, but I think it's folly to say "eh, it's too hard, I'm just going to do what's easier"; at least, if you take the game seriously and want to eek out any and every advantage you can - which I do.
sucks :I

Resources to get better with genji
Are there any useful streamers or youtube instructional videos to get better with genji? Youtube is saturated with beginner level genji tutorials. Are there any advance tutorials that will help me micro manage my genji? If you already know the basics about his combos stuff, I'd just watch pro streamers play him. Watch when they engage, when they disengage, which routes they take around the maps etc. Stuff like that is hard to write down as it is really situational, but after watching enough streams, you'll get a better situational awareness.
I found the best way to improve as Genji is to train specific mechanics from his kit individually. For example, training your left clicks at a long range in the practice range or practicing changing targets when using you're ultimate in a custom game. A good rule of thumb is the more specific your drill is the better you will be in that one skill. So make sure you don't mix and match mechanics in a single drill such as dash resets and left click accuracy. This way you will be able to focus on what's most important to you.
Also just play a ton, and ffa has helped to improve my genji game as well. Most important thing to know is when to engage and disengage, so yeah watching pro streamers will help get a sense of that
Who should I watch? 
Thank you very much! I'll try that out. 
So far I got over 100 hrs. I still feel like I could improve. Thank you 
i dunno necros_ow for example?
https://www.twitch.tv/necros_ow
Thank you
Kruise is also great, often plays Genji https://www.twitch.tv/kruise

And then there's Shadder, he made his name playing Genji https://www.twitch.tv/shadder2k

Edit: Formatting
one note, you may want to understand the concept of "ghost dash"

also not overwatch but something interesting to keep in mind when playing tracer and genji
https://youtu.be/svCmXhYxMGc
Thank you very much. I'll look into them 
Thank you thank you I'll look at it rn 

Mid diamond cant carry himself at low plat..
The last seasons I have been a consistent diamond player. What happens every season is that I drop quite a bit, when I play for far too long when tired. 

When I fall down to around 2500-2700 I stay there for really long, and it feels that it impossible to have an impact on the games, and this happens when I stay at my best heroes, or try to fill. When Im a bit on a lucky streak and get above that sr, I can easily climb to mid diamond. Could it be that I didnt learn some basic skills, which are less needed in diamond? It feels like tanks do no create space properly, and heals are always late at that sr.Something I find exceedingly frustrating is how much you have to change your play style throughout the ranks in order to rank up. Things you would never do in Diamond and above because it would cause you to lose are things that you often have to do in lower ranks just to win because so many people don't follow some of the most basic rules. You can take for granted certain things in higher levels because everyone knows better but in lower levels there are silly, stupid mistakes that people will make that you may be so used to never happening because everyone knows better. So then you succumb to something idiotic that actually benefits the enemy team and reinforces the bad habits in their mind. It's frustrating, honestly, but sometimes you have to sort of get back to basics if you dip into lower ranks. Such as checking your corners (especially for campers), re-evaluating positioning, take the easy counter pick rather than the hero you know you can win with but you'll have to work a tad harder, work on avoiding and/or reducing toxicity, things like that.
So this is my typical seasonal cycle;
Place mid diamond -> play my fav. hero till masters (or which ever hero I am aiming to get to masters this season). Then I play whatever heroes I want to/ want to improve; which usually drops me to anywhere between 2700-3200 where I stay till the end of the season. 

I regularly duo queue with my bro whos at about 2700-3000k, so I have quite a lot of experience in the brackets your talking about. I find in the lower ranked games there isn't a huge difference in skill, the mechanical aim ability of a 2700 soldier isn't that far off a mid diamond (relatively speaking). The main issue I find at lower ranks is the players ability to make good game choices, aka;

* Dying when your team has lost the team fight to spawn together
* knowing the ult economy and whether you should be holding your ult specifically for a counter
* countering the "star" player/s

So what I find is that at the lower rank games, if I want to ensure a win/get the best chance, I will try and do a combo of the above. If they have a certain hero your team is simply failing to counter, then I will focus on countering them. If they have a good genji, and your mercy is dying every fight, then I might go winston and focus on keeping him off of his best game, this gives your players more room to do better and to increase the overall team work. There isn't really a huge difference between the ranks in question, so what I do is focus on playing in a way that makes my team function better. An example, we had a torb orissa payload comp, they had a widow, now I probably should have stayed orissa as she's better at keeping the torb combo going, which is important for torb, but I had to go winston, and bubble the turret, dive widow, force her out of her spot, jump back out for heals. Basically I didn't contribute a lot, but I stopped widow having 100% free time to shoot and gave her maybe a 50%, while also still trying to keep the turret protected. 

hope this helps in some way :) 
It's tough to carry on the cusp--

I've definitely been in your position more than once, what I've concluded is that if you're a solid Diamond player, you can't really expect yourself to be able to hard carry at Plat, it just doesn't work that way. You're better than the players in Plat, but you aren't *so* much better that you can carry despite the other players on your team, so if there are even one or two particularly weak links on your team in a match (compared with the rest of your team and the enemy team) you're going to have a hard time winning those matches, whereas if you have a competent team across the board, your extra talent/ability/experience above your current SR will be the edge that wins you games against a competent enemy team at that SR. It's tough though, and it's really easy to get stuck around 2900 if you're a Diamond-Mid Diamond player that has fallen into the 2000s. What ends up happening is that you have a lot of sessions where you go win-loss-win-loss-win-loss.
I'm not here to insult you, but just to clear up an illusion about people's "actual" ratings that many players have. Is mid-diamond your season high or are you also almost hitting masters? I think it's normal for players to fluctuate 500 SR either way around their "actual" SR, but then they weight themselves by their season high. I would subtract 250 from your season high and call that your SR. I suspect your "actual" rank is a little bit lower than you think.
If tanks do not create space properly, then be more conservative about engaging. Definitely don't go for sneaky flank until the rest of your team is already engaged. At lower ranks, it probably takes longer for your team to create "chaos" that a flanker can capitalize on.

Or if you're confident in your survival skills, then be the proactive flanker who lures enemies away from the main choke so you essentially make space for your team (but you won't be able to contribute kills).

---

If healers are always late, then try to depend on them less. Maybe this means picking Soldier more than McCree so you can heal yourself. Maybe this means picking Tracer more than Pharah so you can blink to health packs on your own. Maybe this means generally positioning yourself closer to your teammates (behind tanks ...especially if you're McCree).

That said, at lower SRs, it's probably easier to dive/flank healers. Teammates won't peel for each other as much, so you should have more success ambushing healers so long as your Tracer/Genji skills are up for the challenge.
I've found that every bracket has their own playstyle. When playing in a given rank, such as diamond, you get used to things to expect from your teammates. For example, you're quite used to your McCree getting some nice flashbangs to disrupt enemy flankers. And while you do keep an eye out for them, you know that if you stick close to McCree, he'll be able to help you out.

Then, if you play a game in Platinum, your friendly McCree won't necessarily be as good. He might miss his flashbang and you might end up dead.

This is purely anecdotal - I'm a Mercy main on my main account, and when I am tinkering on my smurf account and people tell me to play Mercy (because god forbid no ones wants to play support), it's a pretty big struggle. No one dies together, no one keep an eye out for you.

You just gotta learn how people play and adapt. If your healers aren't getting to you on time, be more reliant on healthpacks or come to them/don't overextend as much. If your tanks aren't creating space, maybe make opportunities for them to be more bold, like getting a cheeky kill with Tracer.

Best of luck to you :-)
The problem is that its very hard to " carry " bad teams in overwatch but you can have huge impact.

You will rank back up over time it might take a few games but it will happen.

Im a 3.9k dps player (peaked in low GM) and i could barely win a 2.5k rated KOTH game on soldier won every 1v1, 41% of teams hero Damage while going 65-8 and the only reason i had 8 deaths is because we got completely rekt 1 of the rounds. It went 3-2.

Some games are just unwinnable and its hard to have the carry impact at 1 tier below.


Which role are you playing? If it's anything but DPS carrying can be a lot more challenging in a tank not too far off of your own. 
Sounds like a comms problem. 
I was stuck in plat all of last season. This season I finally made it to diamond (hopefully because I got better, but also maybe because placements no longer reduce your SR). I haven't played all that many games in season 6 so far, but it feels easier to play Mercy at this rank than in gold/plat. People are generally a bit better at taking cover and retreating, so I don't have to put myself in vulnerable positions as much to heal. And sometimes tanks will even peel for me. Playing Ana is still tough, though.
>countering the "star" player/s

Not to get off topic but I did want to highlight this (and the following paragraph that kind of explains this). I feel like this is hugely underrated advice. I recommend this a lot but people never seem to really understand it, especially during a match.

If there is one player who is just dominating from the enemy team, if you can swap heroes or strategies to counter them, even if you never kill them or anyone else and just keep them away, then you've done the most important thing out of the 6 players on your team to give your team a winning chance. It's kind of sad that there's so little recognition for this. Sometimes, being the unsung hero is the best thing to do to win games. You may even get flamed for it sometimes since you "didn't contribute." Just because your team can't measure your contribution through medals or elims doesn't mean you didn't give them the chance to win. Even if your team dogs on you there will be at least one person who noticed your efforts and will be grateful for it.
> 3000k

You mean 3k.
I will be forever 2600-2800, for a while I was frustrated about it blaming it on my team and all that other bullshit.

It took a while for me to realize my game sense was trash, that I was popping visors and trances when it didn't make sense. I think a lot of players fail to be self aware of how poorly they are using their ults.
No. I have been diamond for most seasons, for the most part of those seasons, and normally I will be between 3100-3300. My season high is mid masters, but that is not where I play normally.
Thanks, that definately helps!
Mostly dps, but I am quite alright on tanks and heals.
Could be a lack of comms but there's too little information to know at this point. Even if it is a common problem at Plat and below.
I'm a bit annoyed at this season's placements. Everyone single person I know placed 200-300 SR higher than they normally placed prior to this season. Every. Single. Person. So I thought, heck yeah, I'll finally place Diamond or maybe real close. I always place around 2700 and sit around 2900-3000 but never can tip into Diamond.

I placed twenty-seven-fucking-hundred again. Exactly the same as every other season. It's not that big of a deal, all in all, I'll just keep playing and maybe I'll finally get there this season. I'm just annoyed that I haven't met a single person yet who didn't place higher than previous seasons except for me.

I've also run into more throwers, toxic asshats, and general douchebaggery in my 10 placements this season than all of last season combined. I'm starting to think I'm just getting the opposite end of the spectrum on everything in this game. Last season everyone complained it was the worst season for that kind of crap but I had a very enjoyable season. This season people are saying it's way better but I've had a shit time so far.

Also, matchmaking is supposedly better about not placing all support mains or dps mains in a group together. All my friends are saying they're seeing way more balanced groups. All I've seen so far are dps main groups. Everyone wants to play Hanzo and Widow. Which is fine, I don't mind those toons individually, but I don't they're both needed at the same time. Especially when neither can kill anything.

Sorry for the digression. Venting over.
> but it feels easier to play Mercy at this rank than in gold/plat

Well just wait until you get into high Diamond and see a sudden rise of monkey scientists, japanese cyborg ninjas and british lesbos that actually know how to play and will ruin your day :p.

Also ult economy is way worse in lower ranks, so it's a lot easier to get value out of res after they used everything.

> I always place around 2700 and sit around 2900-3000 but never can tip into Diamond. I placed twenty-seven-fucking-hundred again. Exactly the same as every other season.

Placements are really busted it feels like. On one account I went 6-4 and dropped from 3200 to 3110 ish, whereas on my other account I went 8-2 and rose from 3443 to 3585. So effectively in the former case I effectively dropped 130-140 SR if you would account for the 2 extra wins. 
This is huge, and a big thing when it comes to team composition.

How often are you on a team getting worked by an enemy genji where everyone is complaining about him, but nobody is switching to counter him or focus him? It's especially frustrating when you are the "star" DPS on your team, and nobody wants to switch, so you have to drop your role to pick up say, Winston, and make the unilateral decision to triple tank, but then lose out on the main player confirming kills. It's a tough position to be in, but often times, if there is one hero that is dominating, and you can competently play its counter, its best to just switch despite what it does to your team comp to, as you said, at least occupy that heroes time, and hope your team can win the effective 5v5.
exactly. I learnt this in a game with a smurf genji on the other team, he just totally recked us and they had like a 6 minute timer left for their next attempt, so I went winston and just made sure the only thing I did was wait for him to pick a target and then I would just harass him till he had to back out. Being winston meant I didn't need skill to hit him (as he was bloody hard to hit), but his healers who he was boosting or whatnot, who were like 2500; in order for his like 3400 to balance out into a high plat game (I was in high plat at the time) meant his ana couldn't heal him well enough, (she wasn't a high diamond ana basically). We somehow managed to win, forced him off genji. but realistically the only thing I did, was keep him away. I got an occasional kill, but I certainly wasn't playing winston in a way I would normally. held ult till he bladed, and just bashed him away 24/7

Glad someone else appreciates that from game to game players can go from being a 1 man carry band to absolute dogpoo. My self included. 
:D nah clearly meant 3000k :D so damn high!
this. 
Blame yourself and only yourself. Not in an overly critical way, but more in a what did I do wrong and how would I have done it better. For example I sometimes switch soldier when the time is needed, and I was on high ground and I managed to basically kill most of their team, but ana, ana managed to duck behind a wall on like 1hp. I had been holding fire, and my spread was quite large, and had I tapped fire in a more bursty way I would have definitely killed her, she managed to avoid the last of my clip. Now I know it doesn't seem like a lot, but stuff like picking yourself up when you don't tap fire enough, or when you drop biohealing too early and then need it after. those sort of bad habits are what you want to iron out. 

Aim and stuff comes with time, but bad habits stick unless you purposefully do the opposite. 
You're not the only one. Honestly, I feel like whatever the game rates players on is broken. High Bronze to Mid Silver felt waaaaay more coordinated and talented than Gold. Maybe it's just confirmation bias, or maybe it's because people in those levels are actively looking to climb and so they at least try to play the game right. 

I've encountered so many people who just can't play. I really think we need to have better in game stats, and they need to be shared across the whole team. I want to know when that widow isn't killing anything. I want to know that D'Va is putting out more damage than Junkrat. The middle ranks are so bloated and it's making the matchmaking feel broken. 
I understand how you feel 100%. I started in bronze when I got the game last summer, moved up to silver quickly, and then gradually worked my way up to plat in about 6 months. I then spent more time than I care to admit in plat and just in the past week or so got to diamond. I still need to play more games to see whether I really belong in diamond or will fall back to plat.

This was very different than my experience with Starcraft 2 several years ago. With that game I also started at bronze and made it to diamond, but my progression felt a lot steadier. This is probably because you can get to diamond in Starcraft just on the basis of good mechanics/high apm without needing a super deep understanding of the game. This is also somewhat true for Overwatch, but I feel like it's harder to carry games with aim and movement/ability usage mechanics alone unless you are significantly better than everyone else in your rank.

One thing that's helped me enjoy the game more is to focus less on winning and more on improving my own play. This way I always feel like I'm in control even if I'm in a match that seems unwinnable. I don't think of lost or drawn games as wastes of time; rather, they are additional opportunities to practice and improve. 
Got placed like 4 SR below where I ended last season. Makes sense since I had hit a plateau as soon as I hit 2600 but also rip in peace. 
>Well just wait until you get into high Diamond and see a sudden rise of monkey scientists, japanese cyborg ninjas and british lesbos that actually know how to play and will ruin your day :p.

Good point. To be honest, I feel like I've just had a string of lucky games with good teammates. I'm trying to main Ana this season as I find her more rewarding to play than Mercy, although I might play Mercy more when the PTR changes go through.

As far as the placements system being busted, the math that's going on behind the scenes is really sophisticated. Obviously, it's not working perfectly, but I think it's more functional than most people give it credit for being.
> It's especially frustrating when you are the "star" DPS on your team, and nobody wants to switch

The story.

of my.

tired and sad.

little life.

sigh.

;D
Into genji pick either soldier or cree and just shoot him every time you see him. 
The only thing that frustrates me about my screw ups is the other team's ability to capitalize on it.

If I'm popping trance or use my sleep dart at the wrong time, the other team is going to rape us. Yet it feels like my team isn't keeping track of the same shit for the enemy team.

Then I think, "I need to keep track of all this." Then I play Pub G instead.
>One thing that's helped me enjoy the game more is to focus less on winning and more on improving my own play.

This is how I have been for the past 2-3 seasons. My time to play the game has dropped considerably so I try not to worry about my rank and such as much. I had a lot of fun last season. Many good games, even if I didn't win, and just a general sense of quality throughout the season. I think I've played 15 total matches so far this season (including placements) and I've seen more shitty (not shitty as in poor skill but as in bad quality and lack of teamwork) people in just my first 10 placement matches than I have in all of last season. Now, I'm not trying to blame the asshats. They're everywhere. Maybe they are the cause of our team's loss. But more than likely it's the team's collaborative efforts that lost the match not the one stubborn person who refused to swap from Widow or Hanzo when they weren't contributing.

It's been frustrating as well that supposedly the matchmaking system is supposed to be better and not put all dps mains on a team as often but so far I haven't seen it. It's been worse for me this season than last season by and far. But perhaps it's just a string of bad luck because I haven't had much time to play since the season started. Maybe another 50 matches will change that tune and I'll see it as better than previous season but only with a bad start. Who knows. 
I get placing this season where you ended the season before. You probably placed lower and climbed up to where you ended. That seems to be the common story for most people. 

What annoyed me is I placed at 2700 this season and last season and the season before and pretty much every season except 1 and 2. I placed 50 in S1 (equivalent to 2500) and placed a tad under 2500 in S2. I worked my way up to mid plat those seasons and have placed mid plat ever since with tiny increases in my placements and highs. Placing 2650 or so and climbing to 2800 in S3. S4 I placed 2700 and climbed to 2980. S5 I placed 2700 and climbed to 2900 again. S6 I placed 2700 (again....). Seeing as everyone else was placing around where they ended (or higher in some cases) I kind of figured I'd place 2900 at the very least but nope. 
> It's been frustrating as well that supposedly the matchmaking system is supposed to be better and not put all dps mains on a team as often but so far I haven't seen it.

Is it confirmed that they have done this? I remember Scott Mercer mentioning that they *might* covertly tweak the matchmaking algorithm to incorporate hero playtime (to prevent players who main the same heroes from being on the same team), but I don't recall him saying this is in the game now.
Might not be the case, I don't know for a fact, but I'm sure there's small differences between 2700 and 2900 that the game tries to measure and it's easy for you in the swing of things to climb but maybe that little area is your plateau? 
Atm mine's 2450-2600. 

EDIT: accidentally forgot a 0 lmao
I'm not sure. I want to say they talked about doing it for S6 and I've heard quite a few people saying it feels better to them, but it's still early. Could just be placebo effect. My games sure as hell haven't felt like any tweaks like that were made though.
For the last couple of seasons I've been consistent in placing and ending. If I'm ending around 2900 and that is my plateau then that should be where I placed this time around. If I belong here, which is fine, then I understand the system docking a couple of hundred SR and placing me at 2700 in previous seasons but then I should have placed 2900'ish this season in the first place. If I belong at 2700, which is also fine although not preferred, then how have I been consistently holding at and above 2900 for the last two seasons? It just doesn't really add up.

It's frustrating, sure, but I'm not trying to complain about it. It was enough to want to vent my frustrations about but I'm going to just keep doing what I have been doing and that's just enjoying the game and we'll see where it takes me.
Damn, yeah I get that. Hey best case, you get some time to up a W/R on a hero? I hope you make it to diamond and beyond though.
My Soldier play has been consistently around 60%+ win rate. I played a lot of McCree last season and had 55%+. My widow was up around 70% but I don't trust that because I only pulled her out in specific situations. She didn't see a ton of play time. I've been enjoying the hell out of DF since his release though and was doing really well with him until the nerf. Pre-nerf felt like there were some glitchy moments when hits should have landed but instead I traveled through an enemy player (dug into this some and determined it wasn't a latency issue) and now it's even more noticeable. I think there's a collision glitch of some sort but I'm not an expert on those kinds of things.

Anyway, its frustrating because I really like playing Doomfist but with the nerf, plus teams not really knowing how to work with him, it's frustrating in comp. So I usually end up back on Soldier. Sometimes I end up swapping on to Reaper, which is strange for me cause I never, ever, play Reaper, but he's just been highly useful even though he's rather situation for me. Dva/Winston groups are still common to run across and Reaper just shreds them (except Dva when she's specifically focused on me).

I don't want to one trick Soldier. I feel like I could and easily get higher but that's just boring. I'd rather be stuck in Plat and enjoying the game than to reach Diamond and above on one toon only. Although, I'd ideally like to at least hit Diamond and play a few different toons that I enjoy.

Why can't I climb out of High Bronze/Low Silver? Mind of a Bronze / Silver Player with a competitive mindset who for my entire 70 hours of OW I've always strived to improve (My X-Post from r/Overwatch)
**TL;DR at Bottom of Post**

##Intro:

Hi r/Overwatch! I've had Overwatch for around 5 Months now or so, having played it first on ps4, and I now own a PC, adding up to a total of ~70 Hours 

##Explanation:

*I'm a Support/DPS Flex Player, having played 8 Hours of Ana, 6 Hours of Soldier 76, 4 Hour on Reinhardt.* 

I personally feel I provide excellent shot-calling and have pretty good gamesense, knowing and telling the team what to try to be aware of the enemies' Ult Economy, such as a Mercy Rez, Lucio Sound Barrier, and whatnot. 

However, My mechanical skill on the other hand, positioning and aim - I don't feel that it's bad, and at least on Ana, I feel I could provide more healing than I do currently. on Soldier 76, I feel the only thing I could improve on my aim is 4 Shot - Bursting more often. At least 3 Golds each game as Soldier. 

##The Question : Why? 

*I feel as if I'm speaking on behalf of a lot of Bronze players* 

Bronze and Silver players are very misrepresented in this community - Casuals, don't deserve anything - have no idea on game balance, opinions are disregarded. 

I have, and always had a **competitive mindset**. Heck, even in school playing educational games I am competitive and play-to-win.

I keep up with the Meta - Watch many pro players stream - Have seen every eSports match since the Overwatch World Cup - browse this and the r/CompetitiveOverwatch Subreddit daily - am pretty positive and don't get tilted easily, warm up before every play session, whether 15-30 Minutes in Practice Range or a game of FFA Deathmatch or two - after 2 Losses, take a break, get water, play FFA DM or QP and go play Comp later in another session. 

##My Theories on Why: 

- Something about my mechanical skill that I don't understand or am blindsided by my experience and successful careers in other competitive games 

- My Team never grouping up after 3 or more people dying in a fight (blaming it on the team, of course /s)

- Staggering deaths (My Team or Myself)

##Conclusion: 

It's always a **Dice Roll* Whether you win or not in this tier - I would honestly pay money to reset my MMR to not be stuck in this horrible tier forever - if I have bad games in placements and place silver or bronze, I never climb. I'm always focused on improving, but I never see results. 

##TL;DR: 

Do excellent shotcalling, pretty good mechanical skill, good gamesense - but teams never group up, And I can't do anything about it. I keep up with the meta and watch pro/eSports streams, always focus on improving but no results show. 

I hope this gets some attention by people who also experience this - it feels like the "first impression" sticks with you forever. Others have given great advice here.  Having as many hours into the game as you say, it seems like you are the rank you deserve to be at based on your skill.  You have to get out of the trap of "I think I am more skilled and deserve a higher rank than I am, and I dont climb because my teammates all suck."  You are the common denominator in all of your games, not the bunch of randoms you get grouped with once and never play with again.  You have to analyse what you are doing wrong so you can improve your game.  You can only control how well you perform in the game, not the other people.  Watch your own gameplay, have others critique your game footage.  Notice the mistakes you dont see in the middle of the game and try to work on them.  
Dont improve because you are expecting something out of it. Improve because you want to improve. Dont let the game be the judge of whether you actually got better.

Also, some question. If you cant answer a single one of these questions then its no wonder why you arent getting better.

When was the last time you reviewed one of your Vods?

What character did you play? What Map?

What was your most repeated mistake in that VoD?

What have you focussed on improving yesterday?

What do you focus on improving today?

Are the last 2 answers very specific or just general shit like "positioning" or "aim"?


Also, I see you mentioning that you are super competitive since you watch pro matches all day and read /r/competitiveoverwatch . Sorry to break it to you, but my dad watches pro soccer all day and he is both fat and shit at soccer. Watching those Pro matches teaches you NOTHING thats even remotely relevant to your level of play. You need to specifically seek out high tier competitive matches of specific maps and heroes that you want to improve with, instead of just sitting on your lazy ass watching aimbotcalvin all day thinking that makes you any better.

Sorry if this sounds harsh, but I feel like thats what you need to hear if you want to get out of low elo.
Ana is a high skill hero. I have never known a player below platinum (even that's a stretch) that could play Ana more successfully than another healer. I don't care if you're getting three golds every game on Soldier; if your mechanics are really good, you could carry your way out easily. But let's say your mechanics are good because I have no idea what your gameplay looks like. Your problem is probably your positioning or your game sense. Again, I can't really help you because I don't know what your gameplay looks like, but if you're in bronze, I would imagine you could improve on pretty much everything you listed.
I think you're setting your goals quite high for having so little play time. I was Bronze at around level 180, now I'm about to hit Plat at level 611. Not saying you need hundreds of hours to climb, but you'll learn most of your game sense, positioning and ult management from playing the game, not through homework.
In Bronze Mercy is so much better then Ana.

For me the strongest part about Ana is her antiheal. If you hit like 4 enemies with antiheal and your team starts a teamfight right then, this teamfight should be won (unless Ultimates comes into play). If you hit 6 players with your antiheal in bronze noone will even notice it and wont initiate the fight.

just my 2cents to that
We can only help you out if you **post videos of your gameplay**, generic advice can only get you so far. 
You say you have good mechanical skill and gamesense but your rank says otherwise. Meta doesn't mean anything in bronze and pros are basically playing a different game from you.

In other words: git gud
I am about 800hrs in Overwatch, when I started playing I sucked at D.va. The good thing is I managed to suck at more then 10 Heros by now and can fill any role except 1st heal.

Give yourself some time, find nice mates you share goals with - have fun. SR is just a poorly calculated numerical "value".
I'm mid-1600s right now. Last season was my first season, I placed at 1498, fell to ~900 after placements, and then climbed back to 1675.

I struggled a lot solo queueing in bronze. I think this is largely because I have a very collaborative playstyle, and my gamesense is much better than my mechanics. (Not saying I have amazing gamesense, just that it's better than most at my level, while my mechanical skill is worse.) Without some level of grouping up/coordination, I couldn't take advantage of my strengths. I can't peel for or heal teammates who aren't near me. My DM/shield/Halt/supercharger/boops are wasted if teammates don't take advantage. Without heals, I die too often or have to flee for healthpacks too much to be a consistent protector for my team. My shotcalls are fairly useless if no one follows them.

I did a few things to climb out. One was aggressively friending anyone I got who seemed decent at their role, collaborative (regardless of whether they were on voice comms), and complementary to heroes I play. So, the Soldier who made use of my Orisa shield/Halt to get kills, peeled for me, and kept me healed with Biotic field. The DVa player who used her DM to take pressure off of me as Mercy and gave me options to escape to heights. The Mercy/Ana who kept our tanks alive the whole game. (Really, I friended any decent Mercy, so I'd get a chance to do something other than solo-heal.) The Reinhardt who protected his team, only took short range charges, and landed good shatters. I also aggressively unfriended if they turned out in later matches to be easily tilted, or antagonistic to others' hero choices, or 'splainers, or otherwise made me uncomfortable.

I also found some friends from various Overwatch subreddits. I almost entirely stopped solo queueing, and I frequently queued with people who were a few hundred points higher than me in SR. Some will say that I was carried, but I found that my gamesense skills were much more valuable with slightly higher-ranked teams, and that I personally performed a lot better. I've actually started solo queueing again and it goes much better at my current level than it did down in bronze. I still get tilters and rage-throwers and 12-year-olds who clutter comms with totally useless information, but I've learned how to leverage my gamesense against higher-ranked opponents, and it's helped at my rank too.

The other thing I do is that I'm always in team chat (barring forgetting to rejoin team chat in Round 2+, which seems to be a new thing this season). Doesn't work for everybody, but given that my strongest skills are in processing my surroundings, reading behavior, and strategic knowledge, not talking to my teammates significantly reduces the value that I bring to my team. I've learned various patterns for predicting who's likely to be a tilty teammate (i.e. is likely to tilt themselves or likely to tilt me) in the spawn room before the match starts, and I mute very aggressively.

If there aren't many people in team chat, I try to pick characters who can "collaborate" in a 1-sided way. Given a trusted healer, Orisa's shield can really help organize a team without explicit comms. Zen discords identify focus targets without explicit comms. DVa can protect ulting teammates, eat ults, body-block, etc without necessarily needing the cooperation of her teammates. Lucio can boop close-range enemies away from teammates, speed people out of blizzards, skew a Rein/Rein battle with heals and extra focus fire, etc. Symmetra can lock down entire flank routes, give her team 75 shield health without them needing to do anything, take pressure off of your main tank's shield or block LoS for a far-off sniper with Photon Barrier, help teammates quickly finish someone off at close range, and, once her ult is up, can provide value to her teammates even when dead. 

If I'm gonna use my ult soon, I both say it out loud and spam it on the chat wheel, so the team can be ready. If people don't follow my shotcalls, I try to just follow up on whomever they _are_ shooting, or solo-distract a flanker. The number of times I've forced an enemy Genji to waste his entire ult killing me as Lucio, via boops and slippery wallriding, and thus denying him a potentially team-wiping ult is pretty high. I know he'll come after me first, so I get away from my team and waste as much of his time as possible. Sometimes I get some help and we manage to kill him. Other times, he kills me, but he's usually pretty low health by then and is easily finished off by my teammates. 

It sounds like your skill set is pretty different from mine, but I think you should be able to find a way to leverage them regardless of your team (over whom you have no control). If you find some teammates with whom you seem to mesh well, friend them. Play in a group. It's not hard to find people.
I placed in high bronze last season (~1350) and only went 7 games over .500.  I climbed 800 SR in the season.  Why?  Because i played well in both wins and losses (for the most part).  I grinded out slowly by getting better at aim, positioning, and tactical awareness.
I would recommend flexing to a few other heroes. Maybe Zenyatta and Orisa for starters? They both fill a hybrid dps role and offer a bit more utility than Ana/Rein. 

I'm a little concern that you mentioned feeling like you could provide more healing on Ana than you do on 76; that shouldn't even be a question, if you are playing her correctly Ana should be easily healing 5-10 times as much. Zen will still easily out heal your soldier and out dps your Ana.


The majority of the time I ask my team to regroup or pull back they do listen. I usually try to specify why though, '2 of us are dead, pull back', 'Mercy and Rein are dead, don't go in yet'. Even in QP when I hit the 'group up' callout one or two players usually acknowledge. I'm not high ranked either. 

Also this is going to be blunt- to have a true competitive mindset you should already be reviewing your recorded games frequently and noting and fixing your mistakes (or sharing the recording if you just can't figure out your mistakes yourself). Technical issues with recording would not stop you, because you would fix them (you can still review plenty without sound, regardless), because you're competitive and you want to get better. Or you would already be identifying and fixing your mistakes regardless, just not as many of them, because you would be constantly thinking critically about your games and not just theorizing why you can't climb and assuming it's a dice roll. To be competitive means to be constantly finding and fixing stupid, specific mistakes, including how to better communicate with your team to help you all succeed. 

I'm not amazing at Overwatch but I can say this as someone who has competed in a physical sport for years, we record ourselves and evaluate all the time, and there's a clear impact. 
err then group up with players, experiment with each one you meet and sort them out if you feel like its a dice roll
Some simple tips: Stop watching pro streams.  Stop reading r/compow.  Stop playing Ana, who is super high skill floor.

You need to worry less about emulating pro players and worry more about what you're not doing well.  Which is a ton if you're in bronze (which is fine, everyone starts somewhere).  Post a VOD if you're serious about improvement.
So I was pretty much in the same dilemma as you, but I managed to climb out in a few days as I changed up my strategy. 

So for starters Ima DPS main. Genji/Tracer/Pharah/Soldier etc 

1st thing I want to talk about is your picks. Soldier is a great pick because he's useful in every situation, however, on console Pharah is a lot better to use as you can pretty much abuse the team if you position yourself well, she's borderline broken (not op just broken there's a difference) and for the most part you'll find that in your Elo a lot of people don't like to look up or even bother trying to focus down Pharah. And when they do try and focus down Pharah, it's usually a team effort and you'll see a lot of people switching to heroes they're not comfortable with in order to do so, impeding their team. 

PC, a good tracer can pretty much abuse and carry any team if you have the accuracy and the ability to target prioritize their healers.

Tanks: Once again, in your elo there's genuinely no point in rubbing Reinhardt. More often than not, you're team isn't going to be grouped up, and low silver and high bronze players don't typically have the game sense to get behind the shield. That leaves you in a position where you're shielding practically nothing because of the lack of communication down there, and and you're feeding enemy kits because of your health pool. You're also not providing DPS because you're just a shield. I'd switch to a different tank while you're below mid-gold, DVA is a good pick, and Winston is also good if you have two healers. 

And last your healer pick is Ana. So Ana is the highest skill cap hero in the game (sorry genji mains) because she requires so much game sense, target prioritization, heal prioritization, accuracy, communication, and positioning with low mobility. With that being said, you're actually impeding you're team playing Ana at a low rank with little coms. Lucio/Mercy are better picks in his rank because of their mobility so you don't have to rely on your team to protect you as much. 


Tl;dr if it's about escaping your rank because you don't want to be there you can carry yourself out pretty quickly at this rank by using cheaper strategies like pharmercy and changing up your hero pool, but if it's about actually improving then I'd say focus on why you die, and who you should be killing.  
Download overtrack.gg to track your matches more easily.
Just like everything in life stop trying to force it. 

Except your af the rank you're supposed to be at and forget about sr just improve your game  play eventually you'll get out. 

Find some friends soloque can suck but find some friends who will switch if they're getting countered . Honestly if I have someone who won't swap even when asked I kick the person from the group. 

Learn  character cool downs learn how to exploit the enemy team comps weakness . 

If you're playing 76 watch boriums YouTube gameplay that guy is a fucking beast and helped me a lot . 




Hey! I climbed from 1537 to 2172 last season on the back of DPS and Support, so I can kinda feel you. It will feel like babysitting sometimes, but if you're as good as you say you are, go for it. Anything for that W, right?

Imo, Ana isn't a very good pick in lower tiers because she's an enabler. If your teammates aren't positioned properly or are too spread out, your shots and nades will have minimal impact. If your DPS isn't popping off, Nano might not contribute much. Also if your team isn't listening to you, you might find it hard to duel when flanked.

Zen is pretty much my support main now. You punish your opponent's bad plays more because his Discord + orbs hurt, and you have more leeway in healing because Harmony orbs can be out of your LOS for up to 3s before being called back. Also, having game sense means you can easily deny enemy ults with Trans because you know what to expect.

I agree with other comments here that pro matches aren't the best way to improve. You're watching **coordinated** teams with hours of practiced play. Comp is an entirely different game because you don't always have that luxury of teamwork, especially in solo queue. 
Could you perhaps post a VOD? I'd love to share some things
> I would honestly pay money to reset my MMR to not be stuck in this horrible tier forever

Uhm, then do it? Buy a second account and see where you get placed. If it's a rank you're satisfied with (which doesn't exist btw, all plats want to rank up to dia, all masters wanna get GM and every Top 500 player wishes to be rank 1) then just continue playing on that account. If you get placed in bronze again, you now have 2 accounts that suggest you belong there.

>  on Soldier 76, I feel the only thing I could improve on my aim is 4 Shot - Bursting more often

I call major, MAJOR bullshit. If your aim was THAT good, you would have carried yourself to at least platinum, more likely diamond or masters by now. I'm in plat and my aim improved drastically over the past months but I'm still nowhere near people who play at master or GM level - and burst optimization is definitely one of the lesser problems here.
Dont know but probably not much
Dont know The number but probably not much.
Dont know but probably not much
I think part of it might be just getting used to pc - i have ~40 on ps4 and ~30 on pc (hours) 

You're right though, even though I do focus on my performance, it's easy to be blindsided or focused on nobody grouping up over what you're doing wrong  In real time 

But nobody, and I mean nobody can 1v6 a team, so doesn't that still make it luck of the draw? I'll most likely just climb (or try) this season until my friends also build a pc
In that last paragraph - about pro matches and comp mindset - that wasn't saying I expect it to help me improve - that was to say That I strive to improve and I play to win - I'm no casual player by any means 

I do need to record more VODs, however. I will whenever the audio driver on my MOBO starts to record game audio and Game Comms, because I've read that's what the problem is. 

Also - Even with how harsh you were and the misunderstanding with the last paragraph - you seem knowledgeable 

For VOD Reviews - Do you recommend Good or Bad games 

Good: Meaning you team actually talks and regroups after staggered team fights 

Or 

Bad: meaning no team comms at all and nobody groups up after staggered deaths - no coordination of ults
Can you give some examples of specific things to work on?
> Watching those Pro matches teaches you NOTHING thats even remotely relevant to your level of play.

I think this is a concept that is often missed. As a low rank player, I seek out VOD reviews of players who are specifically Gold through Diamond, playing the characters that I play, on the maps where I struggle the most. If I were Gold, then I'd probably start focusing more on Diamond and Masters VODs. I tend to get the most out of the VOD reviews that are about two levels up from my current ability.

I also think your question about which skills OP is focusing on right now is critical. If someone knows what they need to work on and prioritizes focusing on specific skills, they will get better. If someone is blaming the team for their rank (not specific losses, but the overall rank), or if they don't know what to focus on or don't know why they're not improving, then it's time to start requesting VOD reviews from better players so that the player can "reset" their training and improvement plan.
> Sorry to break it to you, but my dad watches pro soccer all day and he is both fat and shit at soccer. Watching those Pro matches teaches you NOTHING thats even remotely relevant to your level of play

haha that's a great way to put it, and it's a good point overall.

Firstly, pro's nearly all have amazing aim, so even if you try and copy the same techniques they do, there's a good chance they'll fail if you don't have the skill to pull them off.

Secondly, pro players are insanely well coordinated, have next level game sense and all have a strong knowledge of their teams strengths and weaknesses. That's something you won't even see when watching their gameplay but it makes a huge difference.

The most you may pick up by watching pro games is a cheeky tactic or a good hero combo you didn't consider, but as others have pointed out you'll learn more from analysing your own mistakes than watching near perfect level gameplay.
Yeah ana i know will take ages to master - I'd say she's the most high skill floor and ceiling hero
> In Bronze Mercy is so much better then Ana.

Mercy being better than Ana at bronze has a lot to do with res IMO. Bronze and silver are the ranks for grouping can be non-existant and staggering is a huge problem. With res, you can semi-force your team to group up by resing players at the same time reinforcements come in. You may not get a 6 man group, but you could easily get 4 or 5 grouped. As long as you outnumber the opponent, you are in good shape. Ana doesn't really have the ability to make a big swing like this.
How to record game comms with Nvidia Shadowplay? I've tried before and it didn't even record the sound of the game 

I've read its something wrong with "RealTek Audio Solution" which was a driver that came with my MSI B350M Gaming Pro MOBO but I haven't found the right settings for it
Oh oops typo after that sentence about ana i meant to put a period - then go on to what i feel could work on on soldier 
Thanks. This more psychological side of advice helps a lot more than most of the responses, I should focus more on my mechanical skill until I get to a rank where teamplay/shotcalling/comms/gamesense is more prominent 
Thinking about playing soldier as he's easy (er) to play without much effort 

But why NEVER play Ana? I enjoy playing her and have been improving on her in the hours I've played 
You are correct that nearly nobody can reliably 1v6.  However, everybody on ladder has the same obstacles to overcome, whether it is teammates staggering or poor ult usage.  So why are other people ranked higher than you if having to overcome these same obstacles as you?  They focused on themselves and what was in their own control to be more consistent and skilled.

Red team has an equal chance of teammates staggering or using ults poorly.  You have to think of it this way: matchmaker tries to get people to the rank that they belong at.  So if you are in bronze, the game believes the other 11 people in addition to you are bronze.  If it is true that you are better than bronze, then your team has an innate advantage in having you, someone who outranks the rest of the competition.  Over enough games, this small advantage in having you in every game is going to translate to a higher win percentage, which in turn will make you climb the ladder.  This can be more pronounced on characters that have a higher impact (soldier vs reinhardt for instance).  If you are not climbing, then you are where you belong or you need to get better than bronze with a more high impact character.
But nobody, and i mean is worth absolutely nothing. You're never 1v6 and to climb, you don't need to win 1v6. Every game you get is on a spectrum from unwinnable to unlosable. Even a top 500 can lose a game in bronze if he gets really unlucky and even a bronze player can win a game in GM if he gets really lucky. You don't need to focus on those 40% of games where it's pretty much unwinnable/unlosable, focus on those 60% of games where how well you play will determine the outcome of the game. 

Also, you have to stop being delusional, you don't *Do excellent shotcalling, have pretty good mechanical skill and good gamesense*  if you are stuck in bronze. Quit blaming teammates, realize that you need to improve in order to get out of bronze, don't view games as a coin flip, try hard every game. The thing that is holding you back the most is your mindset, you're not better than the people you get matched up with, you're every bit as good/bad as them and if you're actually significantly better than them, you'll climb in no time.


You shouldnt judge a game based on what your team did. You should judge a game based on whether you knew what you were doing or not.
But thats not really what you should look out for when deciding which games to review.

You dont decide on which video to review, this is a mistake lots of people make when doing vod reviews. Your assessment of the vod has to match whatever mindset you had when you recorded the vod. If theres no communication between the op and the reviewer on that aspect, then it just becomes a tip giving session which most likely is useless.
You can focus on specific abilities (Am I firestriking on cooldown? Am I getting max value out of my projected Barriers as Zarya?), You can focus on keeping track of how many people are alive at any given time. You can focus on predicting enemy Graviton Surges. You can focus on Prioritizing enemy supports as a flanker. You can focus on tracking important enemy cooldowns. You can focus on sticking close to corners. You can focus on staying close to Healthpacks. You can focus on only ulting when the fight is still winnable while not using it if you dont even need it.

etc etc.
I was pretty excited to watch the Scrub Cup for this reason. Pretty cool to see what a bunch of players at my level can do with some coordination and coaching.
I am pretty sure that sound wouldnt really make a bit difference here. Just upload a muted vod.
Hmm do you mean your own voice comms, or just the sound of the game in general?

In case it's the latter I'm afraid I have no idea what's the problem. I assume you've already updated to the latest version for both shadowplay AND mobo? 
Try OBS studio its easy to use and has a lot of guides i`ve had Overwatch from season 1 didnt play season one but all the other seasons i am Plat now but have been in Gold, Silver and Plat have a youtube channel were i make montages and post gameplay watch if intrested and i can watch yours and say what mistakes you made.
did you press the button to record in-game audio
That makes way more sense, but at your rank there are plenty of players who use Ana as a dps who can also heal, as opposed to a healer who could dps.

How certain are you of your positioning? Do you try to stay in a spot which allows your tank to be effective? The high ground is always good, but if the shield is below you it might not be best. This is a major issue I see players who are good at more traditional FPS games having, and why I recommend Orisa; she really makes you appreciate having a shield.
If your aim is as decent as you say and you don't have trouble finishing kills, it's likely your game sense and other skills that need work. This was my point- to continually evaluate yourself critically and figure out what to fix. 

Teamplay and comms can become more prominent by you yourself practicing it and figuring out how to get your teammates to follow along. I.e. be the change you want to see. According to everything I see posted on this subreddit, team play is hit and miss at almost every rank. 
I hate to break it to you, but Ana in bronze is the classic "I'm too good for this rank" pick.  While you're missing 9 out of 10 sleep darts, the enemy Mercy will both be outhealing you and single-handedly winning games with her ult.
Most of the utility she offers is wasted in Bronze. Anti-heal and massive burst healing are hugely useful... at ranks where players have decent aim and incoming damage is more reliable on both teams. Sleep Dart shuts down powerful ultimates... if you can aim it well.
I feel like Ana is only as good as her team allows her to be. This is why I'd recommend playing something like Mercy over her, where your heals and res will be far easier capitalised upon.

---------

**Sleep dart:**

**With good players** - You can potentially shut down an ult and leave the enemy asleep for the entire duration, or allow someone like Hanzo or Widow to easily one-shot them while sleeping. 

**With lower skill players** - Chances are they'll cancel the sleep effect by damaging the sleeping player very quickly, allowing them to escape.

--------

**Healing grenade**

**With good players** -  Healing-block the enemy and have your team focus them

**With lower skill players** - May not notice or be able to properly capitalise on the healing block. Better just to use it as a burst heal.

------

**Nano Boost**

**Good Players:** - Combined with another ult, you can easily get a team kill. EG, with a genji, soldier or bastion ult. 

**Lower skill players** - Nano boost is possibly the easiest wasted ult, as you completely rely on the person you boost to capitalise on it. (EG: I've seen boosted reins in a close fight just shield wall the entire time. Totally wasted)

----------

**Bonus point: mobility**

Ana has nearly no mobility. She has sleep & grenade to get out of trouble, but if your team let flankers get to you then you're screwed (This isn't exclusive to lower levels) so without a team aware enough to protect you, Ana is very vulnerable. Mercy has the ability to fly away to a distant ally, so you can use that to escape flankers and heal up.
Ok, now I'm going to have to look up Scrub Cup to see what it is... sounds like something I'd enjoy watching.
Both. It didn't record either in the QP match I recorded to analyze my own Gameplay but general gamesound and comms were completely silent - the video was silent 
How much does OBS Affect Frames? Only playing on a 1080p60hz monitor until December when I'll get a 144hz one 

Shadowplay only drops 1-5 FPS when I can run at least 160+ FPS with a display of only 60fps
All i did originally was Alt+F11 (Shadowplay HotKey) > Record > back to OW
Yeah I just made a spreadsheet to keep track of each game/what heroes played / and going to try to record every game (or at least as much as my harddrive can hold...) 
That's true, and makes sense - I'm really good with sleep darts, team just wakes them up after completing negating them from the fight, Biotic Grenades they never follow up on 

So for support I should probably just play Mercy until Gold/Plat where at least on ps4 people capitalize on sleep/anti heals, I guess I'm just more used to higher skill players from playing in plat or higher on ps4 because I was used to it from multiple other fps games on console before 
You will be fine, you don't need 160 fps when you can only see 60.
I never noticed any performance issues while using it.
there should be a microphone icon when you enter shadowplay overlay click that and select the one you want to use

around the right side next to the main recording/streaming icons in the middle
Ty

Quick reaper tip for dealing with the new junkrat ult.
I don't think I have seen anybody post this before, but it is a tactic I have been using with reaper for some time. When the enemy junkrat uses their ult everyone tends to run away and try to get in position to shoot down the tire. As reaper I always run at the tire (while shooting) and right before it gets in the kill range I use my wraith form. When you get the timing down you can usually bait out the explosion and prevent the tire from being used on a squish jet target. With the new junkrat being played more often I have been able to use this more often. Works with zarya bubble, and mei ice cube too.
Also works for Tracer. You can also sprt of so this with Roadhog and Orisa by using take a breather and fortify to survive even if your health isn't full.
Yesterday i learnt you can't sleep a tire. Pretty unpleasant experience.
Interesting strategy. What I used to do as support was separate from the team hoping Junkrat would chose me instead of my grouped up teammates. Usually Junkrat went for the lonely Mercy, but maybe it was not a good strategy. 
Dropped the beat right on me and ana yesterday. 
You! You did this to me!!!!
Assuming the Junk will explode as soon as he sees you.
It's easier to bait this with a Mei wall. Or alternately as Hanzo I charge straight to the wheel and let him lock on to me. It's easier to shoot when it's coming right at you and it only takes 1 arrow.
Mei's blizzard freezes Junk's riptire in midair, making it easy to eliminate it. That can be hard to coordinate, but super satisfying. 
What's wrong with just shooting at it? Works most of the time...
I do a smilar thing with Sombra. I throw my translocator, use myself as a bait and translocate as soon as I am sure that Junkrat will detonate the tire. 

And then of course my team blames me for picking an off-meta hero. :)
I don't want to be that guy but isn't baiting abilities with invuln abilities pretty... basic? Mei ice block or tracer recall to dodge a flashbang or hook, as an example. It just seems pretty obvious to me. But hey if it helped someone good for them.
And Genji dash. Run towards the tire then dash through it
I play Hanzo and flick one-shot it
Believe me the only thing I struggle with in a competitive game is my own team. 
I've had moderate success with Winston, jumping away and bubbling. 
Orisa fortify survives it. I would imagine Roadhog's heal would be even better. 

Best strategy is just to move away from other people like in a WoW raid, limiting him to a solo kill. 
I also do this with Orisa's Fortify. 
You still get knocked back though, so you have to be a little careful around edges.
Tracer recall as well
With Zarya being the only Thing that actually works against good junkrats either.
And tracer recall 
Genji's deflect also works, trust me, I'm The Genji Main!!
It's a lot harder to judge with Tracer though, because her low health means a larger effective radius for the rip tyre.
You can do something similar with sombras translocator if your timing is on point
I would be very surprised if you could. 
If you are shooting at it he usually does. The fear of it exploding plus the enemy right on top make people react. If they don't explode it and you don't wraith then you shut it down anyway with a good shotgun blast. 
You still can and people will still be shooting. I found this a bit more consistent though as it doesn't require reliance on teammates to do it necessarily. Plus you are still shooting at it and trying to destroy it just wraithing if it gets too close. If it is destroyed you don't need to use your ability. 
If you've played with the new patch you'll know how fast the tire is now and how much easier it is for junkrat to move it around erratically to make shooting it unreliable.
Sombra isn't off-meta exactly anymore. She's seeing more pro play time and in comp as well, but the lower tier sombras just aren't that good sometimes. I know I'll get downvoted to hell for this but sombras in plat and under just don't have the game awareness you need to be successful at sombra. I've played with 4 sombras today and literally all 4 of them at one point EMPed their team when all or most of our team was dead. Not only the sombras themselves but teams as a whole in the lower ranks just aren't going to sync well with a sombra. They may or may not act on hacked heroes and health pack usage could also be a lot better.
Yeah I'm at a loss for why this needed to be said...? 
will get  you killed if detonated because dash is not instant and rip tire covers a whole area
Keep that mindset and you'll never climb out of gold.
Can you bubble midair, or do you mean jumping, landing, and bubbling?
I think the Junkrat Tire just rolls over the bubble though (as if it was a solid object), so it can still come after people.
Indeed, these fancy tactics presuppose spreading out. So def do at least that much.
Yea sometimes the team can't react in time though especially if the junk just spams it out close to the team.
Hog can hook the tire, too. My strategy tends to be to get away from everyone, and if i can successfully, try to hook the tire and take a breather
Roadhogs heal definitely works well
Considering Roadhog can face tank a 1000 damage D.Va ult at point blank range with his new heal, then he won't really suffer to a 600 max damage tyre all too much. Hell, you can even completely undo it's effect if you time it right. If you start healing right as it goes off in your face, you'll take 300 damage and then heal for 300.
People are retarded though and they don’t ever spread out correctly. 
Nice try junk main
Is tracer immune while re-winding?
For her, I usually run away from it, then rewind so I’m back behind it, then run away in another direction. Usually safer than trying to get it to explode but I do that as well if possible, really hard though 
Rewind
I mean, you can sleep the omnic characters as well as dva's mech
I feel like it's my job as Soldier or McCree to do it. It's also good practice ;)
That just sounds like horrible situational awareness that could negatively affect your team no matter who they're playing. To avoid confirmation bias you should also try to keep track of Zenyattas that use Transcendence to save themselves, or Meis that use Blizzard when no one's around to clean up, or Soldiers that ult just to kill one person, etc etc etc.
Guys don't be rude, he played with a whole 4 Sombras. He knows what's up with all Sombra players platinum and below
combined with poor ping = bad day
Yeah but you can predict 
In my elo no matter how good the hanzo even if he is wraxu himself in the flesh if that hanzo gets locked. Ends up with 2 or 3 people just leaving comp. I had 6games today with leavers on my team. 2 of them had 4 leavers (Hollywood and 66). Even though I don't rage or scream at my team (I see trouble I just mute everyone) it's a fact that unless my team cooperates we can't win.
Sure the enemy gets trollers too, that's what everyone says but what's the point.
In the end I still have to babysit my team and even then it's futile.
'gg we have hanzo troll game' picks torbjion on anubis attack, seeing this someone says 'noob torb, fking noob team' and he picks Sombra and stealthily goes to the second point whilst we are trying to take the first one and sits there.
I don't know what your elo or your mmr is but this is the example of my usual game. I am confident in my dps skills that if someone supports me with a proper team I can play good enough to carry some extra weights as well. But since no one plays healera/tanks I have to make up for the slack. Keep my mouth shut while three people rage at each other and then finally inevitably lose every other game. I had a good mindset once. One that a friend told me would help me climb but even he accepted he was wrong after he played two games with me for fun on his smurf.

No I am not accusing you or saying that you are wrong I am probably destined to stay at this elo for a long time too but my mindset is the least of my worries. I even review videos of my own game play to see what I could have done to get a better result but alas overwatch isn't like league where you can 1v4 or 1v3. You need support. And that's what I usually don't get. 'usually' being of more emphasis here. Down vote me all you want doesn't change this fact. Hope you have a blast man. Good luck. 
You can absolutely bubble in the air, it will fall to the ground though. If your good at it you can do cool things like bubble dva ults mid air.
You can bubble midair, but the bubble drops with gravity. There's a lot of videos of Winstons jumping and bubbling around a Dva ult; I basically try to do something similar with junk's tire.
What I've managed to do a couple times is bait the explosion by getting close to the tire but dropping the bubble and jumping away so that the explosion is caught within the bubble. But if you don't bait them into the explosion then you haven't helped your team. Another thing I've tried to do is stand about the distance of the bubbles diameter from my team and try to catch the explosion that way, but I've had a hard time getting the distance right. 
I punch the tire away as junkrat
tbh I am actually the genji main, never played junk... I just want to see other genjis to suffer when they dont let me play my genji... I am a horrible person      
but fine, real trick: just dash through the tire, you will destroy it but the dash will carry you from the blast range
I believe she's completely invulnerable during the rewind.
Not immune, but she is like Doomfist ult, out of map completely. I've been in a game where I lost because I recalled while being the only person on the point, and overtime expired. 
She is removed from the map and then reinserted. 
TIL you can sleep DVA's nuke
Pro zenyatas use trans to stay alive in critical team fights all the time (see unkoe). The team can just use it to be aggressive while it lasts. It's hardly the worst strat. I'm not saying that other heroes can't have bad ults, that's hardly the case, but the other heroes are also much less reliant on their ults. Zenyata, Mei, and soldier are very useful even without their ult. Sombra, without her ult and hacking ability, is nothing. Her ult/ hacking ability is too reliant on teamwork and communication, which isn't widely available in the plat rank. 

Of course situational awareness is required universally, but a lack of it hurts sombra players exponentially more than others. I play sombra at the master/gm level and it works well, I do the same at plat and the team just can't do it. I'll EMP their whole team and our reinhardt would just stand there with his shield up and not advance. People won't like what I say, but there is almost no use to main sombra in those ranks.
I've played with hundreds of sombras, I've played tons of matches as sombra. You need team cooperation and be smart with your positioning and ult usage to be a good sombra. If someone ticks all those boxes, they shouldn't be in plat, and if someone doesn't tick those boxes, they're not a good sombra. If you fail to see that logic, you're one of the shitty sombras.
That would be quite a hard read. Not a risk you wanna take when it's 2-2 final match
wow tldr but I'm sure it says "My team is the reason I am a low tier"
I got an account to bronze (normally I am high master) and I climbed through the ranks in half a day, from bronze to diamond. It is very possible and you definitely can 1v3, but why do it? Wait for another teammate to go in and be your meat shield then come in from behind and quickly put an end to them.

I recommend that you start playing pharah or tracer, get good at those and it will be easy to climb out.
[Excellent!](https://static1.squarespace.com/static/54499378e4b003f5babae12f/t/5678c74b4bf118d6ee51fd5a/1450755926438/)
Ah, interesting. Thanks for the info.
It doesn't blast if you destroy it
So you could bait with that, cool
That's crazy
Wait you can sleep a flying Dva nuke to interrupt its flying?
I get what you're saying. To clarify my example of a bad Zen ult though, I meant to imply that he uses it just to prolong death when he's alone, not in the middle of a team fight.
2000 SR in half a day? Yeah I’m not so sure about that
I play pharah. Who said I am bronze? In gold people can actually kill you if you don't get supported. You are a high master player. Of course you will climb out. Heck I am gold and I climbed out of bronze after being placed at 1050 Sr. I climbed out of bronze to reach a season high of 2425 sr last season in 3 days.
I am not a high Master player. No offense but I dont think you or any other high elo player will ever Grasp what I am saying.
Simply because you are too good for that elo. Why don't you try 1v3 someone in high Plat.
I am pretty sure that unless you are a fking God you will fail most of the times.
Most low elo players do what they think is right. If they think at all that is. I used to be scum like that back in season 3 so I know believe me.
And as per your advice I am not good on tracer and genji. But I am good at cree, pharah and 76. There was a time when dva wasn't being played much that I could safely rely on 76 innate  healing and dps and my accuracy + positioning to carry games in gold solo. But ever since dva has been a thing 76 hardly gets the job done especially if a doomfist and a pharah focus me. My reliance is on hog recently since he can heal, deal damage and tank. But it's still slow going since I might be good at hitscan but I only have a 60% hook accuracy in average. I am trying to improve it but probably won't be able to put in as many hours as required to solo carry.

I am not asking you to boost me or pity me or as a matter of fact make fun of me. So just dont make me regret posting any comments here. 
Yea but they were saying because of her low health, the kill radius of the tire is bigger than reaper's so it's harder to bait it out.
Yeah, this works well against D.Va ult actually. Wait for D.Va to ult, kill her fast since she only has 150HP and then recall as the bomb goes off.
> crazy

She ran out of time.

If this was earlier seasons it is possible due to huge win streaks but even then it's definitely a stretch, you could gain 100-150 a match I imagine but even then, 2000?
Sorry man, didn't mean to be so rude, just typed it out in a hurry and I meant I played from bronze to diamond and that it is possible to climb. Shitty teams will of course make it worse for you but if you perform better than the players on your rank you should be climbing over time (although it will take quite a while of course with bad luck).

I suggested tracer because she is usually working out, there is a few times you will have problems (torb turrets mainly) but overall it should be great. You can outplay pretty much any character or run from the rest. If you got a friend then do pharmacy combo, especially with the changes to mercy hitting soon it should be even more potent. GL.
Yes, but half the time you press rewind and still die without rewind triggering properly because of latency.

You can't wait until the explosion starts or it's too late.
Aaaaaah gotcha
You mean kill radius of the tire is different for different heroes?
Uhhh but is Tracer immune while rewinding?
Literally
It was quite a while ago. Also it was higher end of bronze and mid diamond so not quite 2k but almost.
I'm so glad I have gigabit fiber now (9-12ms). I do not know your pains but I empathize all the same.
Basically. The closer you are the more DMG it does so if you have lower health you can die from farther away.
It's about the risk involved in baiting out the tire. As Tracer the kill radius is larger due to her lower health, so you spend way more time at risk of death if your timing is off.

EDIT: Based on the OP's other comments it looks like the strategy involves wraithing as soon as you're in the kill radius, rather than relying on good timing. So as Tracer you'd need to rewind out way sooner and wouldn't be able to get much damage in.
God I envy you. I usually have 100-250ms on adsl but it fluctuates between there so you can't even get used to it. There is only one day of the week (Thursday) where it's below 50ms. 
Fuck I hate Australian internet. 
Sorry, I was trolling because the reply above was repeating the start of the comment thread :(
Oh, haha my bad!

It did seem kind of odd that you still didn't get it lmao

Escaping ELO Hell as Support Main, Long read, seeking advice and maybe friends?
Hello!

Background info.  I placed Diamond in S1 (63) S2 and high plat S3 (2950).  I didn't have many friends who played back then and I kind of quit.  I enjoy the social aspect and teamwork aspect of this game greatly.  Pulling off teamwork plays and good coordination is way more satisfying to me than getting a triple on a junk tire or something. I took a long hiatus between S3 and S4, joining S4 in the last week for the quick comp-points.  More recently in the last 6mo, I came back to OW after convincing some of my friends to pick it up.  They are less experienced FPS players, and at this point I had 200h on OW already so I helped them catch up.  I did my S4+5+6 placements with them and although I have fun playing with them, they dip in and out of overwatch on a month-to-month basis... so I end up with dryspells of playing solo.  They also dragged my SR down a little?, or perhaps I was rusty, -- really unsure, but I am now consistently placed in 2500~ish Gold/Plat.  Based on my entire career I am probably a solid mid-plat player.

I flex as much as I can but enjoy Mercy / Ana the most.  I am often last to pick in order to keep a balanced composition, and if there are 2 other support mains in my team I am confident with Solder / Junk / Dva / Tracer / Mei / Orisa...  I by no means am a one-trick pony, I try to diversify myself and can play all heros at a silver/gold level, save for maybe Doomfist and Zarya.  I have a reasonable understanding of all weaknesses, strengths, compositions, map positioning for most heroes. 

I am an experienced FPS player aged in my 30s, starting with CS 1.6.  Twitchy aiming and fast paced shooters are not new to me.  I feel that I have above average aim.  A weak point is likely my mouse/pad setup.  I can't afford new hardware or a larger pad to reduce my sensitivity and re-train my arm.  I am planning to rectify this soon, but I don't think it's solely my issue, nor is my aim with my current setup.

That's my background.  Sorry it was long.

I'm here today because I genuinely want to escape the hellscape of zero-communication and unironic Hanzo picks that I endure in Gold league.

If anyone else is familiar, I need not explain.  For a time early in my OW career in S1 and S2, I played with a team comprised of diamond players and it was absolutely wonderful.  This wasn't a fluke of a few games, but genuinely 30-50+ hours of time spent in those leagues.  Sometimes we had a know-it-all elitist but otherwise it was genuinely a fun and positive experience.  The people I played with used voice chat, they coordinated and talked out strategies and coped with issues by being flexible.

Gold league may as well be quick-play featuring one tank instead of a Genji.  There are people who won't read chat, they won't talk on voice-chat.  When asked if they could group up with the team instead of running in alone and dying, I'm met with silence or things like "no amount of talking on VOIP will make you heal me faster, there is one tank and two healers and I should never die".

Not kidding, real line used against me last night.  I was contesting the payload as Mercy while this player in question (Orisia) was backing away while I healed him.  It was a 2v2 situation and he just offered them the space they needed to advance.  He out-ranged me, and I flew to him and conceded.  We both lived, and they pushed the payload past a good choke that we otherwise could have stalled.  I couldn't talk to him on voip and say "no stay on the payload."

This is the kind of toxicity and idiocy in gold league.  It frustrates and infuriates me into quitting to play a different game, when really I wish I could be playing OW with a competent set of people willing to actually try to win.

So what are my options?

Do I grind forever and hope the circumstances align that I might accidentally end up in Diamond with people willing to coordinate in a team game?

Do I change mains and one-trick pony someone who can carry like Zarya?  I detest this option as I feel that one-tricks would be just adding to the problem.  Plus I don't enjoy Zarya that much. :(

Pls help.Heres what you do.

Accept that ALL ranks have issues with comms and group synergy. Some dont. This is the very nature of pick up games.

Coordination is a direct result of team synergy and vice versa.

You can leave it to chance

OR 

You can try to make the best impact you can be broadining your options.

Is my team really dying to heals? Or do we actually need lucio zenyatta to supply speed for damage negation initiation and discord orb to make a dps or tank play less aggresive.

Does my rein need more heals or just a d.va to matrix him so he can do more then just hold rightclick.

What you want to improve is not JUST your skill with a hero BUT your ability to ADAPT your heroes to whats not working. 

Your ability to predict and critically think are what hold most players back. You auto pilot more then you know.

An example.

I ONE TRICK roadhog.

If im solo tanking why would i EVER think i can hold at a choke? Instead i need to be on point weaving in and out to remain a threat. I need to position doffrently then 2-2-2. I need to prioritize diffrently.

Your case your orisa backed away because he/she felt something that said back away. Sometimes youll need to supply that in a diffrent form other than heals. Maybe if you were lucio youj could have sped past him and drew attention and made him feel not alone. Maybe a fat discord couldve made him feel the upper hand who knows? 

You need to disect whats going on and choose to stand firm or fix the issue. 

You will leave gold elo when your gamesense allows you to leave it. Trust me on this. I know this may seem harsh but. Your not a diamond player. Your gold.  And you have lessons to learn there that dont let you maintain diamond.

Play your hand and be open. Dont think this wont work. Think how will i play this to work with no comms. Its always diffrent. 

Find out your win condition and seize it.




Hi! I'm a Mercy/Ana main who lived through that pain when I went through gold. Being a support main is a hard thing. You are doing something that others don't want to do because a lot of the time it sucks. It sucks even more in gold when you get people who are toxic. 

I know it isn't the same for everyone, but what helped me through gold and into plat was staying positive. Making the best call outs I could, assertively telling my teammates that I needed help, and trying my best to make people listen to what I had to say. If they didn't then that was their prerogative and I'd just try again next game. Worrying about how others are going to be playing around you is natural of a support main. You want your DPS to get the kills, and often times they lack in that department, which leaves you vulnerable and exposed, but instead of telling them to switch off because they aren't getting the picks and risk them getting angry, I usually focus on what I can do to remain alive longer, which means more healing (whether this means switching to a different support etc). 



I would recommend focusing on what you can do to improve, and not worry about what you get put with if you are intent on solo queuing. I also wouldn't worry about flexing so much. Pick one hero for now and stick with it until you are extremely proficient at it. I was the same way, I wanted to fill with what was needed, but every time that I did that, I would end up playing something I'm not comfortable at. I started playing Mercy religiously, and once I figured out how to use guardian angel appropriately and effectively, I became much more difficult to hit, which meant I could charge my ult faster and stay alive longer. After I was confident with Mercy, I started to pick up Ana, and now that I'm confident with her, I'm working on my DPS skills. 


If you feel like you're getting burnt out, take a step back for a few hours and take a break. By continually losing, you are putting yourself in a shitty mental place, which means that most likely you'll continue to lose and form bad habits. I usually go until I lose 2 games, and then I call it quits for a bit. 


I know how much it sucks. I went from sub 1k to diamond in two seasons. Getting through Gold was the most difficult thing I have ever done, but it taught me so much, and improved how I played. 


I would also recommend posting VOD for someone to review. It can help out a ton. 

and, if you have any questions, want mercy/ana advice or just want someone to play with, hit me up. 
Personally i jumped straight into comp at level 25 in the first few week of S5 and got placed at like 2100sr playing s76 primarly, with some orisa/zen aswell.played about 40-50 games and was climbing>falling>climbing>falling at random although the majority of the time i felt like i playing and contributing very well, and most definatly was experiencing the toxicity and general bad quality of games you are describing.

I just packed in comp and stuck to qp/arcade and played around with some other heros.Then in the last week of S5 one of my friends decided he wanted to do comp again on his dps/support smurf and try to get it from low gold to plat(Hes 3.2k rein main,and generally not an fps gamer).

So we duo qued and just having that one person in every match i could rely on to get some consistent team play and synergy made a massive difference,i stopped playing DPS as the game is full of DPS mains or at least those that think they are and started tanking the majority of the time.My duo partner would flex,most the time that would involve us playing double support on KOTH and Main tank/off tank or tank/heals on payload/2cp. In the past 3 weeks i have climbed 800sr and am on the brink of diamond and im 99% i can get that within another 15-20 games.And its all down to knowing 100% every game i play have at least 1 teammate i know for a fact i can rely on to get a solid foundation for a composition.

You seem like a quintessential flex player,which is great  but you really wanna pick a role or hero that you 'main' and is straight up your best and most consistent pick,and thats different to one tricking.

Get a duo partner and work out between you the best pairing of heros you ideally want to play together for every game(your 'mains')Ideally this would be Main tank/healer   Main tank/off tank or duo support.

Sometimes other people will pick one or both of those heros,and the pair of you will have to play something else,or your ideal hero pairing just doesnt mesh well with the other 4 players picks,or you will just have to straight up fill roles,but thats fine if you are comfortable in with a bunch of different heros.

For instance i main Zarya and ideally want to play her on most maps if possible as shes my best hero and has high carry potential.But i can play orisa/s76/lucio to a pretty simialr level,and dont mind flexing to reaper/rein/zen/ana either.

Getting a duo partner and trying to focus on a handful of heros is the best way to climb and more importantly just havng better quality games and fun imo
Play Symmetra.
Hey man, I climbed from about high gold to diamond recently. Support really is the hardest to role to climb with as you're at the mercy of your teammate much more than the other roles.

I 100% solo queue cause my friends are all in silver and I cant really play with them. I try to dps most games but I am also a competent tank. I do fill support every now and then but I have a 40% winrate on pretty much all of them. 

What I suggest is pick up atleast one dps and tank. You don't have to be so diversified, but have a good solid option if supporting your team isn't working. Soldier 76 and Rein/Zarya are the obvious choices as they fit most team comps and aren't countered as hard as some heroes.

Also, mentality is huge. I was stuck in low plat all of season 5 and the start of season 6. Tilting is real. If you notice a teammate dying alot try following them around, you don't have to pocket them but keep a close eye. Your teammates are gonna be dumb and useless but they're also gonna be cooperative and capable and just need that little bit of support to make plays and win games.

Be positive, try to work on your game and have good flex/pocket picks.
Okay so first things first I'd say that solo queue is like 90% luck and is probably the single most frustrating way to play competitive. It would be fine if you just ended up filling in for 5-stacks, but realistically you just end up with teams of randoms who all want to play their main.

So advice #1 would be queue with at least one other person. If you like supports and can find a tank main, the two of you can drive a decent push and randoms should start following.

I'd recommend sending a friend request to helpful cooperative players that you enjoyed playing with. I did that and ended up being invited to a discord with a bunch of their friends who regularly play together.
If you are going to blame poor communication from your team as the reason you can't climb you are in the wrong place. It's been said a million times in the past, the common factor in every game that you play is you. The sooner you can accept that you are the reason you are stuck at X SR the sooner you can stop wasting time getting frustrated at teammates while doing nothing to improve. There's nothing anyone here can tell you to improve your learning process in OW unless you are willing to accept that you are no better than the people you are playing with. 


I am a low diamond player looking for a team of played I can rely on. Recently I have been getting 4 dps mains on my team. Me being a dps main I am still comfortable playing Dva/Zarya/Rein/Winston/Zen/Lucio/and Mercy. In season five i tried to stay with a group of players but they slowly dropped  out of diamond. I have been looking for a team.  If you send me a friend request i will gladly try out to see if  i can make your first asked to comp with. My current ranking is 3018. My account is Ninjabread#11331. Be warn I talk a lot and if u have a problem with squeakers.
Thanks for the advice.

>Accept that ALL ranks have issues with comms and group synergy. Some dont. This is the very nature of pick up games.

Yep, I will still have some bad games in any league.  Very aware.  I just opened my client to check, and I played 27 games over laborday weekend, and I'm pretty sure less than 10 of them were 'positive' -- 'I had fun' games.  This is one of those rare games where I can still have fun during a loss, but honestly I felt like I was wasting my time this last weekend.  I was in a sour mood, and I was trying to grind and rise in SR a little, and made no progress.

>Does my rein need more heals or just a d.va to matrix him so he can do more then just hold rightclick.

I can see some of these things and I totally understand how this is important to grow as a player, but the issue here is that I solo-queue 90% of the time, Gold is filled with uncooperative players who either won't listen or are literally incapable of listening (they aren't even on voip).  I'll note this advice but it's tough to pull off.

> Your not a diamond player. Your gold.

I appreciate the advice but you state that you one-trick roadhog, and then tried to convince me to be flexible and capable of filling in gaps and issues on the team where needed.  Also, I don't think I'm diamond.  I placed low-diamond before Ana even existed and the meta leaned heavily on Mercy, whom I mained.  I consider myself physically and technically a plat player which is essentially where I place currently.  I want to ascend to Diamond and beyond for the goal of bettering my play, but also to have (overall) more positive and entertaining games with people who strive to win.
Thanks, I think we have really similar stances.  I'm gathering from the 3 comments thus far that I just have to grit my teeth and gitgud.

Stay positive and work together.  I always am the positive person saying HI and trying to get people to come up with plans or work together...   Maybe I just need to deal with the shitty losses with bad players better and get over it instead of being so discouraged?
> So we duo qued and just having that one person in every match i could rely on to get some consistent team play and synergy made a massive difference

This is genuinely what I want, and it seems like the best way of grinding it out. :(

> You seem like a quintessential flex player,which is great but you really wanna pick a role or hero that you 'main' and is straight up your best and most consistent pick,and thats different to one tricking.

Maybe I didn't make it clear in my original post but I think I have about 60% / 30% / 30% of my total time on Mercy / Ana / Dva

I try to flex when my team has 2 supports and someone picks Dva ahead of me, it's a fall-back.  I'm ***at least*** not a one-trick such that I'm desperately crying to play Mercy.  I've encountered those people.. "Can I get Genji dog?" -- "no"  --  **picks torb**
90% luck?  That's complete bs.  Yes there's luck required getting good teammates in a 6 man game but its not close to 90%.

The matchmaking system also matches you against similarly compiled groups of teams/solo players so you're talking drivel.

If you're competent and on a mic on solo queue, then you'll climb fairly quickly.
> the issue here is that I solo-queue 90% of the time, Gold is filled with uncooperative players who either won't listen or are literally incapable of listening (they aren't even on voip). I'll note this advice but it's tough to pull off

This is a problem, sure, but it's also completely out of your range so there's no use in getting upset about it. I think what Roadhogsback was trying to say is, think about how YOU can maximize your chance of winning in every scenario. Constantly evaluate what your team might be missing and what the enemy team is weak against. The enemies are probably just as uncoordinated as your team and most likely don't have a perfectly balanced team comp themselves.

> I appreciate the advice but you state that you one-trick roadhog, and then tried to convince me to be flexible and capable of filling in gaps and issues on the team where needed.

A classic case of "do as I say not as I do" ^^
It sounds like you want a 6 stack.

Accept the very nature of pickup games and try your best 

Or 

Get a 6 stack do scrims and only que with the 5 others.

This is the only way to control your enviroment.

I messaged you.

Ahh ok,in that case you should try and find another Primary tank player to duo with such a rein/orisa main as that would defiantly compliment your main heros best.

Mercy and ana being 2 of your primary heros should be good for you going foward as it seems that with the a slower barrier/deathball comp coming back into fashion dual main healers for support may become the prefered pick for support in a lot of situations,especially with the changes coming to mercy.I personally been seeing quite a lot of ana/mercy  combos in my games recently.

Who knows how the dva changes will pan out,either way it might be worth while finding one other tank you enjoy and are comfortable playing.

Thing is if you you have 2 supports and 2 tanks you are comfortable with you will almost never be in a situation where you have no choice but to play a hero your not familiar or confident with,because whens the last time you had to ask your team for someone to 'flex' to dps :)


Edit:Also dont be afraid to ask your team if you can play whatever hero you would  prefer to play that day.DPS players generally wont switch for others,but support and tank players generally will from my experience.


The system finds a bunch of people at a similar skill level and tries to place similar sized groups against each other, but apart from that it doesn't consider the people. 

By 90% luck, I meant that it's mostly down to luck  how well your team coordinates and works as a team. You can throw together a bunch of similar skilled players, but that doesn't mean they'll work well together. Some games you'll get a nice combination of some people happy to tank and heal, some competent DPS, and things go well. Other games you'll have people squabbling over who plays their main and end up with an uncoordinated team that keep trickling in to die one-by-one.
Im simply letting you know a form of cohesion as you are looking for answers to players short comings.

I choose a diffrent path. I choose to be able to control my fate as best i can despite the comp.

This works good for me. Sometimes i pay for it.

Never did i say you HAD to switch. Never did i say for you to fill.

I simply gave neutral advice. 

If you think mercy is your play maker your ABSOLUTLY MORE THAN ENTITLED TO PICK HER.

understand the limitations of your kit like i do mine and push those limitations through prediction and positioning.

I like hog because i can turn a 5v6 into a 5v5 if i react quickly and with follow through.

Through time i have learned to carry some games. I like having the best control i can. Its my way. Maybe yours maybe not.

You asked for advice and i gave you some. Your not gonna do the killing on mercy in your outlined situation. Or maybe you wont be in that situation alone with orisa at all next time. Maybe youll use good gamesense to evaluate whos gonna get themselves killed and rez them solo or duo before that ever happens because you can feel it coming.

Or maybe youll pull out your pistol and smear the floor to do it yourself. 

Who knows? Thats for you to decide.
You replied to the wrong post bro :D

Tips for pouncing on opponents with Winston?
I don't have any problems jumping to areas of the map with Winston, but jumping on moving opponents is a whole nother story. I miss a lot. Any quick tips? If they're fairly close to me, do I aim below them or directly at them? If I'm going to invest in the dive meta, I should probably get better at diving.If they're near you, move backwards while leaping to make a short jump.
If you weren't aware, holding forward when jumping will leap you further than just pressing jump by itself. Likewise, pressing backwards while jumping will shorten the distance you jump considerably. Practice all 3 kinds of jumping to get a good feel for it. Also, looking straight up when you jump vs forward will alter your trajectory as you leap.

Learning the different ways you can jump with Winston can help you land on your targets much easier.
Try to get more height on your jumps and look down. You should be able to get some hang-time and be able to steer your landing onto your target.
Look up as you jump while holding S to do a spot jump. This allows you to land the nearest to where you jumped from. You can then look down and aim with WASD while in air. For long range, you usually get a feel for his jump range after some practice.
Just pounce is what I do... I like to predict my enemies movements. I try to play overwatch like a game of chess always predicting what they will do and where they will move. Try that
Practice more, and know that you can use movement keys in the air to correct your jump if need be. You should always land within melee distance of your opponents at least.
It's not always about getting a kill. If you see a McCree being a dingus by himself jump on him, but if he runs into his team or healers just let him go. That's the space creating part of tanking with Winston.

If you see someone that's low health, jump them. Landing on someone and punching at the same time is something like 55 damage. 

Ask your team to focus on the player you jump onto, or let them know who you want to dive. Effective diving requires team work between Winston and either DVa or Tracer/Genji because it's about focus fire.

If you want more specific ideas let me know.
Thanks a lot for this
I'm here because my pounce is overshooting my target...
Also look down again when you have made a jump, that way it's easier to locate and catch that exact target.
Ohhhh it's just about tracking.... follow slightly in front

Sensitivity: should I be able to do a 360 with a swipe across half my mousepad, or a 180?
I have set my sensitivity and I was comfortable with it for a while. However I got a new mouse thats larger and Im wondering if lowering my sensitivity will be more rewarding in the long run. Currently I estimate my senstivity to be around 25cm/360 or so. 

The way I set the sensitivity is so that by doing a swipe to the right from the default-neutral (middle) position, I am able to turn almost 360 degrees. 

But Im wondering if that much sensitivity is even needed? Should instead be able to turn 180 degrees only if i swipe across half my mouse pad.

I ask this because, although I know Im supposed to do whatever is comfortable, I need some pointers in the right direction. How much more should I favour higher accuracy (lower sens) over mobility (higher sens)? 

If it helps to know, my mouse pad is around 45 cm in width.

____

Edit: thanks everybody
The obvious answer is to stick with what's comfortable for you. There's no universal ideal sensitivity - there's a wide variance even for pro players. Ryujehong, for example, uses 74.65cm/360, while Haksal at 5.46cm/360. You can find a list of pro sensitivity settings [here](http://on-winning.com/overwatch-pro-sensitivity-settings-setups-monitor-mouse-keyboard-headset/), if you're interested.

One factor you should definitely consider is what heroes you tend to play the most. Most of the cast never ever needs more than 180/half pad, but some heroes do benefit from higher sensitivities. I personally play a lot of D.Va and I find it important to be able to do easy 360s (boost, boop enemy off high ground, return to own team and face the enemy again) and  in the past have seen several Genji and Winston players vouch for a higher sensitivity as well.
From center of the mousepad to the side should be a 180
I try to have exactly 360 degree turn with one swipe of the mouse pad, mostly because it provides perspective when I flick.

being able to do a lot more than a 180 from center to edge is overkill and just sacrifices stability and precision so that you can turn much further than is ever necessary. It's nice to be able to do a little more than a 180 so you have some room left over after a 180 to aim before having to reposition the mouse, but even then, say you can do a 200 degree turn, most people still aren't comfortable trying to aim after a 180 until they re-center, but for extreme situations where you need to land 1 shot asap you at least have the room to try before re-centering.

Do what's comfortable, generally if you can do a comfortable 180 on your playing surface you'll be OK. Imo you should go as low as you possibly can on your playing surface (I play at 5.75 /400 dpi) but it's personal preference 
I mean, I'm sure you can but the question is why you would want to? 

I can't see the benefit to that and it must mess with your regular aiming. A 180 turn is perfectly fine and what most players have theirs set up as.
A 180 turn is the most you'd need. So 180 half mouse pad do you can quickly flick in danger
I do a full swipe its 420
 I guess ill set it so i can turn 180 or just above that and see how it feels. Doing a 360 per half a mouse pad was a mistake I just came to suspect was there.
This - it also helps you work toward the motor memory to make a precise 180. That will help you react to any threat coming from behind.
I can't do that with 4sens/800dpi as Tracer. It hurts me because it's too low to make a 180°turn and I track well with this setting.

I'm thinking of increasing sensitivity or dpi but I can't get used to it. My tracking sucks
Depends on the pad. My pad is big so I this is actually my sens is pereference. I can mantain both good acc and can flick Incase of danger
It's weird to stretch and keep my arm all the way to the right side after flicking it [on the pad (18cm x 22cm)](https://informais.com.br/1148-thickbox_default/mouse-pad-standard-ac027-preto.jpg) and still keep good aiming and tracking. 

I'd like to see a pro/GM Tracer with hand-cam doing some moves so I can analyze that.
Most good aimers use arm (or forearm) aim. They don't only use their wrist but place their forearm on the pad and use it for aiming as well for the big movements. And the wrist will be for the small movements/aim corrections.

Need some help . (sorry for being a douche earlier to those who know.)
Can someone give me some advice. I am silver currently. I was Plat last season I climbed to Plat from 1050sr bronze in 3 days playing only mcree. 

Now in season 6 I got placed high gold. I played mcree and I don't know how or why I got weird teams. Not the comps but the players. I got people playing junk rat and dealing less dmg than an orisa, a rein and a zenyatta (me). People said I should switch from cree as I wasn't good enough to carry with him if I didn't get a healer on team and I switched to hog. 

I have a decent to good hook accuracy since I played blitzcrank in league (good idea of hooks and other similar skill shots). The new hog is good but yet I still just can't make up for the lack of two or three players on my team. (I don't count a widow or a hanzo shooting butterflies as team mates). I try to plead them to change in the sweetest way possible, either they don't reply or flame me, or outright troll. 

I usually mute my teams nowadays. Lock in what I think is best suited for our team and try to die less. Not working though.
TlDr
So my question is - 1) how do I play hog properly besides being a sustain God and hook + kills?
2) is orisa good in these situations? 
3) how to master genji/tracer? (I feel that's the only hero I can carry with if I don't get heals since I have damage, play making potential, good disengage, mobility) 
1) I'm not an expert especially on new hog, but essentially you're job as a tank is to create space for your healers to stay alive and for your dps to be able to get damage off. You also want to be peeling for your supports which means threatening enemy flankers until they gtfo. 

2) I really like orisa and play her every once in a while in comp. You really need to manage her cooldowns well otherwise you're a huge waste of space. She's low skill floor, but she is absolutely worthless if you can't attain the low skill floor. 

3) Lots of practice. Everyone who is famous for playing genji or tracer has 200 hours on them. Everyone you've played who is good on them probably has at least 30 or 50 hours. Watch pros, consume guides of any kind. Play them in death match or qp for a few hours at least then try them out in comp. If you can't hold your own go back to DM and QP for another few hours and try again. Focus on learning, don't autopilot when learning a new hero. 
If your team has a main tank like rein/orisa/winston or sometimes even a dva pick up zarya.You have decent sustain via your sheild and bubbles and huge carry potential.If you got plat maining mcree you most likely have decent/good aim which will translate well to her.Plus shes a pretty good counter to Junkrat and hog who are both played in the vast majority of games at gold//plat.


Orisa is great fun and really viable,but if your not getting good healing its not worth it.
I'm not sure what you're asking for. If your team is bad, then your team is bad, it is just something you have to accept. There is no advice I can give that will make the Junkrat on your team deal more damage, or make your teammates more effective when they're playing Widow or Hanzo. The only thing i can tell you is that 6/11 times, they will be on the enemy team. 
OK so should I keep my teams muted and keep shut if the dps isn't doing anything or should I ask them to change?
I am really confused with this one. 
I just got an advice from a friend asking me to main dva. I used to play her a lot.

Things which I can do on dva.-

Protect supports and dps from flankers by using Def matrix.

Protect Winston when he dives.

If a pharah or a cree ults I envelope them in the Def matrix practically making them invulnerable to everyone cept a potential zarya lmb or a Winston lmb.

Block pharah and cree ults

If someone is mis positioned then dive them. But still prioritize playing as an enforcer rather than a dive carry.

I sometimes if required use my ult to refresh my mech hp. 

I play the palanqin and the police skin. 

But since she is about to be nerfed (reworked) heavily I thought it would be wise to play someone else and another reason is because I have trouble on dva if I am the only tank and I have a zenytta and a 76 as healing sources. I swap to rein or hog in those cases but should I stick with dva? 

I literally mentioned what I was asking for though. My mmr has fallen a lot since last season that's why I am having trouble adapting to my elo. I expect a hanzo to atleast ult when I use graviton lol. That's why I asked specific questions as to who I should play to have the most impact under certain conditions. Why do you think I have specified the heroes that I can play and the ones I have been told I can't hope to carry with. Hence I try to choose my hero according to the needs of the team. I just needed help in recognizing what those needs were and that's what I asked and that's what people have given me tips for. I will try my best to follow them so they yield results can't do anything besides that. 
The rule of thumb I follow is that a barrier tank is almost always more useful than a non barrier tank IF you don't already have a barrier tank. 

If you know how to play them, any of them will work. Rein, orisa, or winston. If you're solo tanking (especially with minimal healing) it'd be much advised to pick one of those three. 

Shields alleviate so much stress for your team it's bonkers. 

Obligatory "stuck in silver" post.
But I’m exceptional at deathmatch. Constantly placed against people at platinum/low diamond in FFA and win 80% of the time with a 2/1 KD. I know deathmatch is a different game and all, but this has to have some kind of impact on my regular play. I’ll post a VoD soon, but what is my issue?When I see a strong DPS stuck in silver, the #1 reason is usually because they use their ults in bad times. They'll go off and pick up a triple kill with their ult then die and be like "Come on guys, got three picks, get on the point!" To which the team replies with "Great, we're respawning right now, you just blew your ult for nothing."
If you are stuck in silver, then there is something you are consistently doing wrong.  You do well in deathmatch, so you mechanical skill seems good.  It is likely poor positioning, poor teamplay, bad gamesense, etc.  The best recommendation is to record your comp gameplay, watch it yourself to spot the mistakes you dont notice in the heat of battle, and have other critique your games.  
The main problem is that you think 2/1 kd is good, you are not thinking about shifting from being defensive to aggressive, vice versa
Personally, since I dont have to focus on game sense or positioning quite as much, Im free to devote all my brainpower to mechanics. Thats my issue at least
This tells us your mechanics in 1v1 situations is not the issue. Your decision making is.
The major factor that keeps some DPS in lower ranks is their lack of game sense almost 100% of the time. I know ex-pro TF2 and CS;GO players whom only managed to peek 3k in this game because they haven't developed this broader aspect.
It may be ult economy, coordination, analysing the risks of positions, being very disciplined on not chasing, etc.

Everytime you die or lose a teamfight, reflect on what you could've done to improve. Even in situations where you got, for example, a triple in a teamfight; ask yourself if you announced the numbers advantage. Did you prioritise the right people? Is their Mercy still alive and did you think about getting a pick on her prior to initiating with the ult? Etc.
bad positioning, almost certainly.
The other is using too many ults. If the other team is gravitoned and your genji pulls out is blade, there is generally no reason you also need to pull out deadeye/tac visor/pulse bomb . Burning too many ults in one fight screws you for fights later in the game.

On another note, pairing tac visor with graviton is a horrible idea IMO. You don't really need the accuracy when all your targets are standing still and you lose the ability to headshot. The amount of soldiers I see who pop tac as soon as graviton hits is way to high.
The other side is holding your ult for a "gg" ult when all you really need is 1-2 picks to win a team fight. For example, a graviton that gets just the supports is enough to win a fight or using earthshatter for a nanoblade genji (1 ult for 2 and you save your team from getting wiped!).
Not OP and not a DPS main, but a newish player trying to improve. Was in Silver last season (not in comp yet this season). I was looking at my stats because I've worked on so many different skills I wanted to see where I'd see improved numbers, and I realized that my worst stats are now ults across every hero that I play. Improving my ults will be my focus for this week.
I'll have one up relatively soon if work goes as planned
I don't know man, a 2/1 KD is good in any FPS game I've ever played. If OW is different insight me please
Yeah. This is sometimes I generally get annoyed at. People hold onto their ults for too long and then the team ends up burning it all at once because people get trigger happy for the POTG.

I started to just hold my ults for rez or I use it earlier to get a pick or two to give my team confidence to push in (since all you need is 1-2 picks to win a team fight).
Let us know! You can also post it to [OW Uni's flowfeedback](https://flowfeedback.com/group/overwatchuniversity) and link it here. It's an awesome tool for reviewing VODs. I love using it.

But as /u/vash989 said, if you're mechanically sound, then you're likely making positional and meta-game mistakes rather than mechanical mistakes. Most players between high silver and low diamond have similar mechanics and have varying shades of meta-knowledge.
I could finish a game of overwatch without killing anyone and still have an impact (Tanks that create space, healers that keeps you alive) On the other hand, you could kill 3 guy for every one of your death but if you do it alone after the team fight is lost, you are useless.
Overwatch isn't a game about trading one for one. It's not a factor of "who gets the most kills." The game is about objectives and you trading your life for two kills doesn't necessarily translate to winning those objectives. There are a lot of moments in Overwatch where trading 2 kills for your own life isn't the right option. 

This would be easier if I had a VOD to analyse, so I could point to relevant examples, but I'll just come up with a handful:

* Your opponent has the point on Oasis: University. You're playing Soldier: 76 and have been the main source of damage this game. For whatever reason you happen to die first (the enemy knows how dangerous you are) and your team struggles on for a bit but loses the fight. You respawn while your time is still losing the fight, but by the time you arrive at the high ground overlooking the point, your team has died. You could probably take down two enemies before going down, but doing so will force your team to either engage without their best damage dealer *or* lose valuable time waiting for you to respawn. Here, it's probably better to retreat *or* just jump off the side of the map so you can respawn together with your team.
* You are defending first point King's Row as Pharah. The enemy makes a mistake that allows you to get two easy kills in, but it puts you directly in the line of fire of their McCree. You decide to take the risk, after all, 2:1 is a good K/D ratio. You manage two kills and damage a third enemy enough that your Zenyatta can clean them up. You do die to the McCree. The enemy respawns and immediately pushes the point. By the time you've flown back, they've been fighting your team 6v5 and have taken a good position on the point. By the time you can join the fight, two of your allies have died. Here, it would have been better to take less risk, get less kills, but keep your own team at full strength the whole time and reliably build up your ult to counter the push.
* You're playing Genji on Hanamura point one attack, and are doing a pretty good job at harassing the enemy backline. You've reliably been taking down or scaring off their supports, slowed down some tanks and diverted the attention of their Soldier: 76. You know where the health packs are (of course) so you didn't need the support of your healers while doing. Meanwhile, your team is struggling to advance on the point because while you've been slowing down respawned enemies, you're allies are struggling to break down a solid defense while fighting 5v5.

Overwatch is very much a team game. While a single player can still have a big impact on the rest of the game, they can't do that by playing for their own success. They still need to take the strengths and weaknesses of their own team and those of the enemy team into account. 
I beat around the bush. What I wanted to say was, do you even play to have 20 killstreak. Or are you just aiming to have 20 kills faster. Do you even switch between these two different playstyles
Okay, this has been really helpful thanks.
Usually always aiming to get 20 kills as fast as possible
Glad I could help ^^

Literally have lost every game this season.
Last season I was playing on a shitty computer for most of it and managed to get into mid gold and got into high plat towards the end once I upgraded my PC. 

This season, I only won 2 placement matches yet only placed 50 sr below my season high of last season (LUL). The problem is, out of 5 hours of game time, I've only won 3 games. It seems no matter how well we do as a team, the other team will pull something out of their ass and hold us even harder than we did. Obviously, there is no need to mention when we suck as a team. 

I was just wondering if there are any tips to get out of this rut I'm in (currently down 300 SR from last season end). DPS main btw. Your definition of the word literally may be off.
option 1, carry your team
option 2, stack n communicate to reduce the amount of mistakes as a team
I didn't win a single one of my placements and got placed 600 SR below my high lolz *tears up*
You're losing because you aren't gold anymore. You're silver or below. It makes sense why you only won 2 placments(as you're matched against people of same level) 

Just before going into competitive, practise a lot and warmup with a nice coffee and be friendly and get the team talking. Ask them to join group chat blabla.

Other option is to also flex. NEVER STAY ON ONE HERO. It's good to know at least 1 hero from each category. If I die a lot on Winston I switch quicker than usain bolt to something else.

Also, look at some of your own VODs and maybe you'll see why you're losing :) 
I've lost every game this season, after my placements, because of leavers.  Literally 12 games in a row.  I've even been winning and had dudes get disconnected then the other team rallies and crushes us.  

It's absolutely infuriating.  I'm bleeding SR and there isn't a fucking thing I can do about it.  
Stop being a dd main, would be my recommendation. Almost all big plays are done by tanks or set up by tanks and supports. 
The evolution of language means that we no longer use the word literally for its literal meaning. This has been happening since the 17th century
"Metaphorically have lost every game this season"

XD
I'm gonna have to go with option 1 for most of the time. But I'm at the point where I'm not good enough to carry. I actually need a team to support me and for me to support them. 
or be a MAN and make those Pentas(once in a blue moon) for immense self pleasure. 
The problem is that there's not an easy backup word for it. You have to specify that you're not joking now. Which is kind of hilarious.
Kinda sounds like you want option 2
If you can penta or team swipe as any dd consistently, you are probably playing below your SR...:D

Mercy, a Comparison Video of her 1.0 and 2.0 kit Changes
Mercy players have always gotten a lot of flak and hate because, while being a really fun hero to play, she is stated to have lower mechanical skill ceiling than most. While I'll remain unbiased and have no opinion on that, I do believe her new 2.0 kit offers a new skill ceiling for Mercy players.


I reached Masters last season, on my own alone, unboosted or carried, and didn't take advantage of any SR shenanigans or what not. I just enjoy playing Mercy like the next guy, but I know when to switch when it's required. With that said, I decided to make a video comparing Mercy's 1.0 kit to her 2.0 rework. Certain mobility maneuvers and techniques either become obsolete from 1.0, or are expanded upon in this 2.0 rework, and I go over them and explain what to expect when playing her new rework.


All in all, her new kit feels just right in my honest and humble opinion. She's not too strong and definitely not weak; however though, she will take some time getting use to with what her new kit will offer. I put a lot of time into this video, making a script, rehearsing it, then recording various clips that match what I was talking about. I sincerely hope you all enjoy it and hope it helps future Mercy mains make the transition over, as well as shine some light on her new skill ceiling and ultimately and hopefully alleviate the Mercy main hate.


https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TY_xOIFDVxUGood vid man, there's a lot of info I hadn't really been conscious of before as a non-Mercy main.
Do you know when Mercy hits live? As my most played hero I need to train new mercy a bit
Slingshotting looks like my favorite change to Mercy with this rework so far. Rez still feels underwhelming to me though in a season which is going to be about Ult spamming with D.Va nerfed. Good video though, thank you very much!
I've always wondered how this new mercy would change the game. I don't have PTR downloaded so this really helped me. Thanks!
Thanks!
I don't know when she does, although I made this video early in case she hits live today and I would have lost the chance to play Mercy 1.0 again. Maybe today or next week? Hoping for today, fingers crossed!
My pleasure!
No problem! :)

How to post PS4 VOD
Looking to get my gameplay looked at, just wondering how/where I'd post a video of it? I know how to record the 15 minutes of PS4 gameplay.... I am just new to this and looking for advice.  You can link your YouTube account and upload it directly from share play. Alternatively you can put it on a USB and upload it to flow feedback from your computer. I hear good things, but haven't used it myself. 
[Flow Feedback](http://flowfeedback.com) is a good place to post, since it allows people to annotate at specific timestamps. You can also post a link here.
Thanks, I linked it all up, now I just gotta play some to get a decent game to upload.
No problem, guy. Good luck! 

Competitive has become "Which teams instalocks work better together"
When this game first came out, pretty much everyone was willing to flex pick, but then people discovered that the SR system essentially punishes switching, and now every game is just a bunch of people instalocking and refusing to switch. I have flexed for 5 seasons straight and never climbed, and i have become so fed up with having to bend over backwards to try to win when 30% winrate attack torbs are muting voice chat and refusing to switch that i myself only play the 3 heroes which i have the most fun with now, because should i have to be the person whos fun and SR suffers when no one else cares enough to change?

Im just wondering, is this problem even fixable? Even if they completely changed the SR system, people are so invested in their characters that i feel like we will never go back to how it used to be. Competitive has become a dice roll where the team whos mains sync up the best wins, instead of a game of rock-paper-scissors and reactionary switching like Blizzard originally intended.

I would like to hear if anyone has any idea how this could be fixed.You said you flex and don't climb. Maybe the insta pickers have tried flexing too and also found it counter productive to climbing. 

At the beginning of the game people really didn't know who they were good at or liked playing. By now most people have figured that out and they don't want to play something they're bad at and/or don't like playing. 

On the other side of the argument. A lot of torb or hanzos or whatever talk about how much they lose because their teammates throw and get toxic before the game even starts. 

People need to be generally more accepting of off meta picks. You need to jump on the band wagon and play what you like playing. If you don't want to flex, don't flex. You'd be surprised how many times your teammates will end up flexing. They just won't do it as fast as you have been. 

Many people think a big part of this lies on the development team. There's really only 1 'true' tank and 4 utility/off tanks. Theres only 4 healers, 2 of which are main healers. One of which is broken and the other insanely hard to play competently. Then theres....ALL the other dps heroes. The chances of peoples favorite heroes being a any tank or healer is about 1/3. If you factor in how most people find shooting peoples faces more fun than healing, It's even less than that. Then you run into the problem that I had where sure, you like healing or tanking. But then you're forced to play that ONE tank or ONE healer all the effin time.
Competitive is more: " What characters who's kit I'm good with that leads to the most wins for my team".
Blizzard made SR changes in recent patch. People like to instalock certain preferences and the flexible people have to work around it, is what it sadly becomes sometimes.

Honestly without data the "switching characters causes SR loss/gain" theory isn't an excuse anymore.
[deleted]
Fill in all the games ---> gets called a support main NotLikeThis
Two things Id like to add to your opinion. People are dumb and like to indulge themselves in the false security that their team (composition for example) appears to be fine. 

Pretty sure they fixed the OTP sr value, but blizz needs to go further and make the Win/loss incrementals more stable. Switching for the sole purpose of winning should not be punished.
Then the problem is still present for the majority of the community 
If you constantly carry your friends that you party with, soloQ isn't all that bad.
I feel your first sentence. I played a lot of Ana last season, but my "main" hero is McCree with 80+ hours. Yet since I hadn't played him much last season, someone looked at my stats and said "why is the support main playing McCree?" Then I showed them my golden gun and clicked the red guys to death.
[deleted]
[deleted]
You do realise if you're winning it's to their advantage too?lol fuck me
The same thing with the time you saved typing 6 instead of six.

EDIT: In case you all were wondering what he deleted it was, "No offense but what did you do with the time you saved by typing soloQ instead of soloqueue"
[deleted]
Why are you going on like some sort of sociopath then?

How is everyone dealing with "Cancer 2.0" Defenses?
The Junkrat buff has evolved the Cancer Defense (also referred to on OWU as a "Normandy" Defense).

The current Cancer 2.0 Meta seems to be:

- Orisa
- Mercy
- Torb
- Bastion
- Junkrat
- Symmetra (or flex to hitscan, Rein, or Zen)

As a Tracer/Winston/Lucio, these defenses seem thoroughly impenetrable until I have Pulse Bomb (which is tough to farm with turrets everywhere).

Any ideas? Pharmercy seems an obvious counter to this, so I'm trying to learn a little Mercy, but it still depends on having a serviceable Pharah. Anything else?

EDIT: Thanks for all the great responses! Let me streamline the post a little bit. If you're going to switch to one Hero and assume no one else will change anything they're doing, who would you choose? The favorites so far seem to be Sombra, Sym, Hanzo, Junkrat, and Zarya...?Sombra can cripple Bastion and Orisa. Probably doesn't directly help you, but it's something to consider.
Because the Orisa/Torb/Bastion have to be grouped up behind the shield, an attack Symm can fuck them up with orbs. Torb turret and Bastion are hitscan, so a Junkrat can destroy them from a location they can't shoot at with his parabolic projectiles. Rein firestrike is also useful vs shields. Zarya can gain great charge from Bastion/Junk/Torb.
Attack junkrat has worked for me here in diamond. Just spam grenades and mines into the spaces they camp in and they'll be forced to move. If they don't, you can farm ult and get a quad with rip tire (climb up high before you drop into the middle of them)
I started playing Mei. Wall them off so your team can get close. If that doesn't work, initiate with your team by throwing a Blizzard in their center. They're grouped up, and the only person who can react is Orisa *if* her Fortify is off cooldown.

&nbsp;

You can also use the wall to isolate one of their team members, like an Orisa that is feeling cheeky and has advanced too far forward. Dive her with your team like there's no tomorrow. It's 6v5 from that point onward.
As a Widow OTP, I am always happy to play against such a team comp because it means I will have free reign over the map and can take whatever aggressive position I want, thanks to the enemy team comp's extreme immobility. None of them can really threaten me from afar either, so by playing Widow, I force them to stay within their death ball. As soon as I get a pick then that victim is going to get spawn camped by me until another enemy or two can come to help them, thus taking apart their death ball, thus making it significantly easier for my team to bust their defense.

But if you're not a good sniper then I'd say Sombra hard counters the whole team comp with relative ease, although it may require coordination with your team.
I feel junkrat is a good counter to cancer defense comps. Maybe even *shudder* hanzo/junkrat? 

Hanzo is good for taking out torb/turret and bastion. Wall hacks help junkrat to know where to spam. At Plat I find junkrat to help offense break through chokes. 


Junkrat, Reaper, Zarya, Symmetra, and Sombra can all do well against that comp. Sombra does especially well against heroes that rely on their abilities like Orisa. 

That doesn't sound like cancer, that sounds like a really easy to counter strategy if your team is willing to switch to counter it. But I agree that Tracer, Winston, and Lucio are all not ideal in dealing with it. 

Pharmercy isn't great against Torb/Bastion if the Orisa protects the turrets, by the way. 
This cancer completely destroys reinhardts.
All I see are a bunch of easy one shots as hanzo. You should get ult fairly fast vs this team and it's easy getting kills with dragonstrike against such slow enemies
So this works in high plat with a bit of teamplay:

- EMP
- Dive (Monkey dva genji jumps the bastion)
- Take a route around. (Dont walk in the open vs bastion behind shield)
- Symmetra (her rightclick forces bastion to reposition)
- and yea Pharah to shot the bastion from different angles.
- Counterbastion with a Reinshield. Bring down their shield faster then yours


Depending on the positioning and the exact team composition, you have a number of options. Long range units like Pharah, Widow and Hanzo can pull off a pick or two if you find the right angle.

Once you have that kind of ranged pressure, you'll find that the enemy team will tend to hide behind Orisa's and/or Rein's shield and stay closer together. DVA is fairly mandatory here just as she can eat almost all of their attacks while they are clumped allowing your team to deal damage. 

The main thing to consider here is that the enemy team has coordinated enough to pick a full 6 man comp. Your team has to be equally coordinated in order to dismantle it. Don't trickle in and coordinate Matrix cool downs, and focus fire your targets whether they be shields, bastion, etc.

Communication and coordination is by far the most difficult part of playing against this type of team, but is absolutely essential.
Hanzo makes every one of those heroes his bitch
Does anyone even find this kind of compositions interesting to deal with? 
There is a lot of Sombra talk against cancer comp. In my experience, yes she can be good, but it's really only for the EMP. The deathball will be too spammy to do any kind of hacking work, Sombra DPS won't get her a lot of picks if the enemy team is good at positioning and covering.  
About the EMP, the tricky part is obviously the timing. You want your team of 5 *alive* and as close as possible to the enemy. Sometimes happens that a teammate gets insta-picked, trickling starts, and the game ends. Not cool. Sombra needs a resilient team, that knows how to stay in cover, doesn't succumb to easy spam, and wait for the right moment to engage. Good luck with that.
If I suspect the team is careless, I will switch to Widow, shooting uncontested is really easy.
Zarya, Pharah, Genji have been what I try to steer my team towards. No use playing Rein since Bastion and Junk will shred the shield. Zarya can essentially go 0-100 charge in 2 seconds against a junk and/or bastion, so if she shields pharah and herself, she can shred the Orisa shield and Bastion, and Pharah is a huge issue for Junk. Genji is an easy Bastion and Junk counter, but not only that, he's good at taking bastions eye off of everyone else. 

Besides that I've found that hog can neutralize Bastion, and Junk is useless against a decent Dva. 

The key is picking off Bastion imo, because without him, Orisa just becomes plain old Orisa, and Junk is the next big target, and Junk thrives off of not being the focal point of the other team. No Bastion = struggling Junk and less useful Orisa. 
Hanzo, no joke
hanzo can one shot orisa or bastion with scatter, plonk them from his leisure since nobody will contest him and easily build dragon to disrupt their positioning if they sit on the point. 
I find that Rein, Orisa, Bastion and Junkrat works.  Rein and Orisa provide shields for the Bastion and Junkrat and their shields will go down fast.  Having a flanker like Tracer or Sombra provides pressure from multiple sides.  Often going to the CP back as Tracer or Sombra will distract them and help the team break through.
Pharoh can work well to disrupt the enemy from behind while your team distracts them form the front, provided you don't hover too close to the Sym turrents or the hitscan doesn't get you first.
Pharah has been working alright if I can get behind them but other then that I feel like a good dive works well. Orisa forces you to flank so don't even bother trying to res shields. Flank and focus fire bastion. Clean up the rest. Your team just can't be timid about pushing in when you flank 
Genji. Or pharra. Monkey. Until they flex up. Pharra and monkey can easy kill the sym turrets. Depending on map pharra and genji can destroy the turret from far away. Then dive in. 
Would be somewhat the best strat i think. 
Next to winston i would add d. Va as long as she diesn not have her lower DM.
If you soloQ i really like picking genji or pharra.. I often can distract em really easy and i will call out "sym turrets down u can pass the chocke" 
Hanamura can be a pain in the ass.. But with genji you can really easy flank to the left side in most cases.. Maybe even use dash on top of the house. Most turrets wont reach you and they have no ability besides junkrat. But junkrat should be spamming at main otherwise your team can pass. 
Often people get really confused if you jump around their point and on top of the house and hit everyone from behind. Its free ult charge. They realise it. They normally should retret otherwise you get fed up. Maybe you can hit zen or mercy really hard while they are unaware and get an instant pick. 

A good sombra could help a great deal. She can hack the bastion to bring him out of turretmode; her gun takes out sentry turrets quite easily and she can utterly *melt* symmetra ults. And if she EMPs, she can take out Orisa barriers, turn off torb's turret, kill half of Sym's heath, remove rez and GA from Mercy, and pull Bastion out of turret.

Pharmercy would also be quite good, obviously.
Very immobile. You probably want to space out and try and pick the defense apart. Widowmaker, Pharah, Sombra. With the mercy changes she's likely to be an issue if you cant take them our quickly enough. And avoid charging the builder ultimates. Zarya can benefit from spam a lot. Rein and Winston will get shredded So maybe Zarya/D.va? She's going to have good pick potential in the next patch.

So, Zarya/D.va, Pharmercy, Sombra and widowmaker
Option A. Sombra builds up emp by fight 2. Risks include team not cleaning up afterwards, Mercy surviving with res, symmetra having tp.

Option B. Play it slow with a pharmercy. Their only heals are from a mercy. If you can pick theirs then you should win most of the time. Can be swapped with a widow if the map has decent sight lines. Risks include relying on one hero on your side to create the golden opportunity, enemy ultimates ESPECIALLY SYMMETRA, Symmetra swapped for a soldier, remainder of your team getting picked.

Option C. The long con. Zarya and Hanzo combo is one of the most consistent combos in the game as there is little risk to your dps ultimate getting shut down. If you can grab more than two then you win. Risks include not picking the mercy, Symmetra teleporter, Molten Core. This IMO is the most consistent method but if it fails you don't get another shot. With the other methods they can be attempted several times.
APAGANDO LAS LUCES
>play Zarya pharah
>be at full charge and get grav in 2 seconds
>¿??
>profit 
Sombra all day long bby oh and zarya. This cancer comp will give you 100 charge in no time and therefore ult. Get a sombra in there too and it's gg
Attack Symmetra.  Her orbs don't care about shields and will take out or force bastion to move while building ult charge quickly, allowing for an aggressive teleporter or shield gen while also providing protection from torb's turret with her shield while she takes it on.  She can really take on most of the turtle characters by herself since they all have the "hide behind orisa shield" gameplay mode.  Once your team can move in, symmetra is extremely lethal in close range to the rest of the cast.  Only character that might give her a bit of a problem is Junkrat, but everything else suddenly finds being stationary to be a very bad attribute.
Attack Symmetra.  Her orbs don't care about shields and will take out or force bastion to move while building ult charge quickly, allowing for an aggressive teleporter or shield gen while also providing protection from torb's turret with her shield while she takes it on.  She can really take on most of the turtle characters by herself since they all have the "hide behind orisa shield" gameplay mode.  Once your team can move in, symmetra is extremely lethal in close range to the rest of the cast.  Only character that might give her a bit of a problem is Junkrat, but everything else suddenly finds being stationary to be a very bad attribute.
Tracer main that also plays a lot of Winston here. I find that the cancer comp isn't so bad if it's just Bastion & Symmetra as Tracer - Symmetra and her turrets are easily countered and a pulse bomb or flank+clip into the blue core takes care of Bastion. Both can be taken on with a strong and careful flank. It's Torbjorn when combined with the others that give me a hard time because his turret and the chip damage that comes along with it makes it very hard to get anything done while you're trying to shoot down Symmetra turrets or push behind Bastion. Torb alone? Manageable. Torb when you have to deal with two other forms of cancer? Ehhhhh. Sombra is a strong counter pick, but only if she can hack/take out whatever ranged defense they have set up in the back (likely Bastion or Torb or even both) before dropping an EMP at the choke. I also agree with the comments about attack Junkrat. If you can spam grenades and force them to move around, that gives your team a solid chance to push in. His riptire will also take care of anyone turtling behind shields if you can drop it in unexpectedly!
Bypassing them is suprisingly effective. The more heroes tied up building a thick defense the less mobility they have.    Take High mobility on your whole team except for one shield guy of your own. The shield only holds up for a second.  But it should give enough time for the team to rush past the pillbox and then move to a position out of view of just that spot. When they eventually have to shift positions they probably won't be coordinated when they do it and you can pick them off in the scramble.   

Bouncing junkrat nades into it from an off angle is another less used option. 
Nothing. The way it's looking, Season 6 and it's meta is gonna be even worse than Season 5.
Everything i don't like is cancer.
It sounds like you're asking how to beat a point-defense team with a dive comp. Use a different team comp.
To expand on that, sombra can outright erase bastion - don't hack him out of turret form if you have a chance to get behind him unawares! Sneak up unload into his weakspot. He's dead instantly. As for orisa, sombra's wide spread is easily accommodated by orisa's massive hitboxes(..)

This is all on top of the main reason sombra is the hard counter to this kind of comp - her ult. Bye bye shields, bye bye turrets, bye bye cancer. As long as your team are awake enough to follow up (and you're awake enough to deploy emp at a suitable moment)
Sombra also disables shields (including Sym shields) and turrets (Sym/Torb) with EMP.
To continue the Sombra question, how fast does EMP build if teammates body shield a bunch of spam and use the mega health?
I just wish attack Sym didn't tilt my teammates. 
Orisa's newly remodelled shield has greatly alleviated the pressure  from sym orbs. It's bigger than rein's now - people behind it can spread out much more. Not to say that means sym orbs are no longer useful, they're still fantastic to send down narrow lanes etc. 
Thanks!
Use the wall to pick one of them up, then coordinate shots on them. 
As a Sombra main, I gotta build my EMP.
I play Widow a lot but problem I have is that Orisa pulls you off vantage points and her and Bastion just spams you so you can't really line up shots properly. Even Junkrat now can be aggressive against you but that's not really too much of a problem. 
> Hanzo is good for taking out torb/turret and bastion.

If they're not behind a gigantic shield.
Hanzo also has the advantage of the best ults for disrupting static comps in the game. It doesn't kill the turrets, but dropping dragons square at the middle of their comp forces them to scatter, allowing a followup initiation on the misplaced bastion.
I agree with Junkrat being great against entrenched, static defenses with lots of turrets and shields.
All good to know.
True story.
A lot of people have been commenting Hanzo, which seems good for scatter, but if the whole team is bunched up behind Orisa shields and you don't have spam help, Hanzo won't be able to take down the shield with any meaningful time before Orisa throws it back up, right?
Good thoughts! Here are my immediate reactions.

EMP seems viable. Dive might work with a D.Va, but as Winston I've been getting immediately deleted. I can usually survive as Tracer, but have very little impact until Pulse Bomb is up. (I think Sombra might have this same problem until EMP is up; Hack isn't great when Torb Turret can see you.)

Routes around are nice, but again, Torb (and maybe Symmetra) are the issue for flankers.

Symmetra seems like a great choice. Orbs go through shields.

Rein and counter-Bastion, maybe not so much. They usually have the angle because they set up first, and that usually carries the day as far as whose shield goes down first.

Thoughts?
To quote myself from above:

I believe it. Can you offer details on how to deal with the Orisa shield while the Bastion is spamming out 600 DPS of boosted Sentry fire (from behind it)?
I find them pretty cheap.. you manage to fully hold first point whith a normal comp and on the attack round you are met with cheese. It also gets old fast.
Right. Honestly I was concerned about Sombra for the same reason Tracer doesn't work. Pulse Bomb is great against a balled-up defense, but never getting past 20% Ult charge means no PB.
That is true but even without it if you have 3-4 teammates alive and the enemy are all hacked then you should be able to get one or two picks as sombra before the emp wears off. I find it to often be enough to scatter the enemy to the wind.
Zarya is my 3rd most played character and I assure Zarya doesn't work. You have to get in range with 100 charge. If you already have it Bastion will melt you as you walk up to them. And if you don't and plan on bubbling as you approach then you don't have enough initial damage and the bubble only last two seconds, after which Bastion melts you anyway.

If I see this comp I switch off Zarya instantly. You're too reliant on being in the right place at the right time with the right charge.

I've found that Junkrat is good against this comp. Especially with double mines. He can get to a good, covered vantage point either being or on a flank with his mines and then just spam bombs at them.

Attack Sym is also quite effective if you charge up her right click. It does quite a lot of damage and goes through shields so forces them to move.
Yes, knocking out the Bastion is the key. And if it's just Bastion by himself, I can usually drink his milkshake as Tracer. Even a camped out, shielded boosted Bastion, Tracer can just zippidy doo dah right on by and step on point until someone has to come deal with her. But Torb changes that conversation entirely (especially since he's frequently in the back) and Junkrat Trap makes it worse.
I believe it. Can you offer details on how to deal with the Orisa shield while the Bastion is spamming out 600 DPS of boosted Sentry fire (from behind it)?
To quote myself from above:

I believe it. Can you offer details on how to deal with the Orisa shield while the Bastion is spamming out 600 DPS of boosted Sentry fire (from behind it)?
So, reverse cancer I guess?
I can't disagree with that!
> Monkey

Aw hell naw. Bastion melts Monkey faster than you can say "peanut butter", and the excess of armor in the enemy comp means the best you can hope for is killing a low-health squishy target before you feed them 500hp worth of ult charge.
I've been trying Monkey and my bubble and I get melted immediately. Leap doesn't help. I'm not a great Winston, but I don't think this is the answer.
Thanks!
Whoof. I hope you're wrong, sir...
Roadhog nerfed officially killed this game in my mind. I was already frustrated as shit with constantly fucking losing matches because of morons (Get this, I had a match on Nepal and we're at the one with the gazebo and we have 80% or some shit on the objective. The enemy team is all choked at the gate so I thought "Fuck it, POTG time". I go around the side and wraith in, Zenyatta already notices me but he seems to be the only one, I hit my ult and all five of them die, D.Va's running away and I knock her ass out with some LMBs, reload during the mek destruction animation and kick her ass. Boom, whole enemy team dead solely by me in less than 10 seconds and we're about to win this round. My team still somehow manages to find a way to lose the objective and we lose the fucking round right when I just rolled out the red carpet to victory. The best play of my entire career sabotaged. Don't tell me shit like "OH YOU'RE NOT LOOKING AT YOUR OWN FLAWS" when I literally just 1v6'd the entire enemy team because nobody had any balls) and where the balance was headed (Remember the goddamn pre-nerf Ironclad Bastion? I sure as hell do and that plus a Mercy could easily wipe a whole team. Not to mention that Symmetra is my least favorite hero in any FPS period and that's coming from a guy that plays a pocket Engineer in TF2) but killing the one hero I could fully wrap my head around made me finally go "Fuck this". I tried picking up Reaper but nothing clicked with my team no matter how well I played (See above) and I just didn't enjoy it as much as Roadhog. I'd consider coming back if they reverted the changes and nerfed the everliving shit out of Symmetra, even when Roadhog wasn't nerfed I still hated Symmetra with everything in me.

Damn, I should probably reinstall TF2.
Sorry I wasn't clear. I meant that I play primarily Tracer, Winston and Lucio. (FWIW, I can fill Rein, Zen or Symmetra adequately, or play a poor Mercy or Zarya.)
And when you decloak behind bastion...

# BEAN HERE ALL ALONG!!!!
> Sneak up unload into his weakspot.

I didn't know Turret Bastion had a weak spot on his back. Is it a headshot area somewhere?
seriously doubt you will manage to kill bastion like that, unless he is afk or literaly mentaly handicaped.... on the other hand, he just taps his minigun and you die
Never tried the bastion thing, shouldn't the thing be noticing your unloading and easily mow you down?
I'd be careful with this though. Torbjorn is a definite hard counter to sombra
>Sneak up

With Sombra?

Her decloaking voice lines are louder than Junkrat's RIP-tire...
even better: she also dissolves the regenerating shields from certain characters like zen, leaving them with lower max hp for a short while (zen has only 50 health and 150 shields, so he becomes an easy pick)
You get 25% ult if you heal 250 hp. You have to heal the full 250 hp though. The ult charges slower but with the same proportion if you don't use the full mega. 
I think you can have one ult per minute if you hack several health packs and your teammates use them. Her EMP is ridiculously fast to charge. 
Pros in tournaments were building EMP within like 20-30 seconds, but that was with some best-in-world tanking rotations and practiced strategies.
It's stupid that they get tilted, but the orbs are so strong vs the shield that you have reason to be confident enough in the pick to tell them where they can go stick it.

>"Why do we have an attack Sym?"  Because half their team is hiding behind an Orisa shield.  What exactly are you guys accomplishing?  You know Orisa recharges her shield every six seconds right?  Is your plan to arrow it down?  Good luck with *that*.

There's just no excuse anymore for thinking attack sym is inherently bad.  Certainly there are shitty syms out there, but there are shitty tracers and genjis and hanzos and reins too.

Inch by inch, this will become a team game.  Just wait till Joe Solo Queue figures out how strong EMP is...
Yepp. The primary reason attack Symm and attack Torb aren't viable is that they come with a massive detriment to team morale.
If a Symm said to me "Hey my orbs will destroy that little nest of theirs" I would totally be on board. I don't play Symm so I wouldn't have put that together myself.
I had a game last week where this happened. The widow on our team was actually decent and kept switching positions after a few shots. The junkrat on the other team overextended trying to pick her off, and we cleaned him up. We then walked onto the point, and with the bastion too busy to notice anymore the widow was able to get another pick on him. 

If the other team is going to make a bunker-type defense, a good widow can make them extremely nervous and uncomfortable by taking unpredictable angles. 
Unless Orisa is behind a shield then just about any Widow is going to double headshot kill and kill her in like 2 seconds. Giant head hurtbox + slow movement while firing = easy kill for Widow.

As for Junkrat, he's really only a threat if he's within range to hit you with a mine, a range that you shouldn't be in anyways. And if you are in this range, then hopefully you can play a corner. The further you are, the more difficult it is for Junkrat to reliably hit you with his grenades, meanwhile you maintain the same killing power. And if you take high ground, that also makes it difficult for Junkrat to threaten you. He would have to spend a mine to join you on high ground, which briefly makes him vulnerable to a headshot while he's in midair.
That's where junkrat comes into play
You get some elevation and land some hits it's really not that hard. Scatter one shot everything on their team and that team has the most number of characters that is easy to hit those scatters

Most maps have an easy way for Hanzo to get elevation
- Winston: of course it does not work alone. Jump with dva->defencematrix and genji->reflect. Monkey just deals aditional damage, places shield and jump or do stuff to not die. Bastion will be dead in 2sec if not pocketed by ana.

- Routes around with everyone, not just flanker. Shieldup->speedboost->go somewhere where you are closer to them or something.

What I realy hate to play against is shieldgen + torbarmor
Hanoi is a vertical midrange sniper unlike almost any other hero in the game. He has the ability to take off angles and expose weaknesses in the enemy positioning and punish them hard anywhere there is high ground. On that team, no one can contest a Hanzo on the high ground and they all have huge hitboxes that can be exploited by scatter arrow (Orisa and Bastion both can be oneshot or bursted to the point of being unhealable, i.e. 1 hp).   

He has all of the strengths of a Pharah pick against that comp (range, heavy burst) while having none of the weaknesses (no Genji, no Tracer, no Winston, no D.va) and doing better damage than Pharah vs Orisa/Bastion as a headshot from Hanzo obliterate Orisa's HP and he can do it from a range and position where no one can punish him. 

A good Hanzo player can literally ruin death balls and stationary comps. But the team has to position themselves better versus a cancer comp in order to take advantage of their lack of range. Above all else, you wanna emphasize solid tank play, patience, respositioning, and coordination. 
I agree with you both. It gets really old and it's not that interesting. Unfortunately, as Tracer/Winston, it's also like running into a brick wall for me.
Absolutely the worst. I HATE playing defense first because there is always a super cheese comp in the second half defense. 
I find Zarya works fine with the right tactics. Bring 80+ charge, bubble off cooldown, and some teammates to shred that shield (junk/reaper/etc). Jump in as soon as the second Orisa shield goes down (don't go in if they have another one off cooldown) soak bastion for ~1 sec while you get in his face and jump around him holding LMB. Helps if Ana throws a nade on you.
You can run sombra or your own bastion cheese strat with flankers. Junkrat is also pretty good. Their draft is completely immobile which also makes them prey for graviton combos, if mercy isn't hiding then often they all do not get healing as a result of running 1 healer
Basically. DVa would have been a good choice before the nerf for a second tank but after her nerf Rein and Orisa are good. Having one flanker is what distinguishes from full cancer. 
Ow shuut! I forgot about bastion! Im so, sorry. Really never seen the comb, sym, torb, bastion. Well then i would just say d.Va. Zarya. Or only d. Va. Pharrah, tracer,  genji. Something like this can bring them out of position.
BUT i can say.. Monkey CAN work! If pharra makes a nice job, bastion has no time to shoot the monkey without going in turret form and if he does, he is dead. But it requires some teamwork. Bastion torb and sym would not sit together anyway. 
Monkey is harder as people think. Especially against discord orb. But i think something fast is way better than some slow approaches. Especially against junkrat. You have to be creative with him.. Sometimes you really just have to leab in. Make some zaps. And immenditly get out. At least the enemys spread out or the turrets go down or you distract em. But often people missunderstand something.. You dont ALWAYS have to leap in..
A few examples: eichenwald. Jump on the bridge. People up on it will go down and people close to it will take dmg and go away.. This zones them. And you have some sort of cover. You can retreat. Or you can just jump down on them and THEN you can leap out.
Dorado. Jump to the right top so you can zap arou d the corner.. Clear sym turrets n traps. Fall down. Use shield. Then leap out.

Also. Look for highground which can give you cover.. Until you have the leap back up. As an example on anubis. First point defence. I love it with winston. You can go on the right choke and jump on a wall, its enought close that you can zap down to people that cross that area(probably the entire team). You can drop down backwards if shit gets hot. Or just drop down after a while and drop your shield. And then leap back over that wall and you are fully safe.

Somewhat the same tactic for anubis second point on the gate.. But sometimes you have to crouch to hit em all. If someone is low, drop down. Punch. And then just leap back up in the gate. Be creative. There are many spots like this. Especially against sym turrets which hide behind some walls. 
Hope I'm wrong too...
You probably weren't watching your own team. Too many times I've seen people roll out the "I killed so many of them before I died, how did we lose the point?!", when the answer was simply that their own team had just died too - often, the reason someone gets a multikill is because the other DPS are respawning. 
So you team wiped them instead of staggering them.
You probably helped them by forcing them to respawn at the same time instead of the steady trickle they were already doing.  Technically your fault that loss for getting greedy 
It's a giant blue box.
It's his head, the blue spot on the back.
That all depends on bastion's reaction time (+ lag phenomenon).

With the conditions of facing an undistracted bastion with the reflexes of a nervous gazelle, the capability to pull off a reliable instant 180, and no lag - then yes, sneak up at your peril.

But in a real-world scenario, the bastion will first off hopefully be distracted if you can wrangle it, then has to notice the incoming fire from behind, then turn themselves around and finally return fire. Meanwhile sombra has been merrily unloading into bastion's crit the whole time. The combo of lag & favour-the-shooter, reaction times, and preferably distraction, combined with somba's considerable dps when dumping into a crit without having to worry about spread or leading her target, all swing things in sombra's favour \*as long as\* she leads this engagement.

On the other hand, taking the matchup in isolation, if you hack a turret bastion you're basically putting yourself into a duel with bastion76, one where you don't have surprise advantage because you announced yourself with the hack. Aside from her ability to tele-escape if things go south, that's actually a pretty bad 1v1 for sombra to take unless she's dancing on top of a healthpack. Bastion76 can headshot much more reliably in a duel which puts things in the bastion's favour.
Generally when sneaking up on Bastions it's best to be behind *and* above. Doing a 180 is easy, doing a 180, seeing nobody there and then looking up takes longer.
Wrote in more detial above but the theory here is that bastion is about dead by the time they can react, which is too late to successfully counter-attack. That's been my experience on both sides of this move. As bastion, by the time I realise I'm being dumped into, it's already too late. Sombra isn't chipping away at me, she absolutely murders bastion's hp bar when pointblanking into his crit. From sombra's perspective I've experienced the same.
Also, you can buy yourself some time by moving with the bastion as they turn.  You keep your cross-hairs on the blue box, and it takes them longer to find you.
Only if he's baby sitting his turret like a TF2 Engie. Theoretically, Sombra (or another flanker) can peel/distract Torb away from his turret while your allies can take down his turret.
You don't have to uncloak directly behind next to someone.. do it a little ways off before sneaking up when you're planning a flank.

Her overly-loud uncloak voice line got patched btw.
Thanks. Follow-up question: A Mega health pack is 250? I thought they were 200...?
Good to know.
Hanzo is actually good at breaking shields, FWIW
Her turrents are reasonably effective at deterring flankers too. They remind me of LoL's wards for that.
Torb is hands down my best hero, but I only play him on Defense because my teams just give up if I pick him on attack.
I'm down with it these days. I try to think of the positives when I have an attacking Sym/Torb. The biggest one, for me, is that flankers are going to have to deal with them before they can come after me.

I absolutely hate Genji with the heat of a thousand exploding suns, so anytime I see him getting zapped with sentry turrets or Symmetra's ray gun I feel deep pleasure.

The problem is usually, what are we going to do if they switch to Pharmercy? At this point is just depends on how open the map is. Streets phase in payload maps can be a huge pain here.
Only a stupid Orisa would deploy a shield and then leave herself exposed. 

Junkrat isn't really a problem, just that on maps like Anubis (Which is the one I have problems with) with Bastion/Torb/Orisa spamming the high ground to get you off and Junkrat spamming the ground (Even had a Junkrat set a trap up top once which was unusual) you have very limited options unless they fuck up badly. 
Good summary! I like this way of thinking about Heroes.
Exactly what I meant about right place, right time, right charge. She's too situational to be consistent against this comp imo. And requires a lot of team coordination and communication which on console in general doesn't exist and below diamond on PC is pretty rare too. Not saying she isn't good, I just feel there are better picks for this situation.
You're right about Pharah - if she distracts the high-health targets Winston can get in there and wreck stuff. Pharah can outrange both turrets reasonably easily, paving the way for Monkey to dive. Forcing Bastion out of Sentry mode means the bubble should keep Pharah alive long enough to take out the stacked Orisa and Bastion, and from there Winston can clean up.
Dude, from what I remember there was at least four of them on the point. They were waiting and we had them choked, especially after I just massacred the enemy team. They were sustaining fire on their shields meanwhile I was going "Fuck it, I have my ult. Let's have some fun". Of course it got POTG because no single play in that match came close to that, both sides were going "Holy shit" in the chat.
Yeah, I wanted to put an end to their shit. Not only would they not be able to use ults to try to make a push (They were clearly grinding and I didn't want D.Va potentially separating the group), but it would buy us some time for everybody to group up on point. Anybody plat or higher would've done the same shit because you are preventing your opponent from doing ANYTHING for as long as the respawn timer is and then some from walking back. I had an opportunity to completely nuke the enemy team, who wouldn't take that?
They weren't trickling in, otherwise I wouldn't have been able to wipe their ass in one ult. If they were spread out, I would've gotten 3 kills tops.
Thanks!
Is it bigger on the inside?
Sombra usually wins the duel vs bastion 76 and your team can help you take him out. However, unloading into him always gives him the time to swivel and kill you. If you are relying on him to be distracted by your team fire, then hacking him would be just as effective in that circumstance.



I'll try your method but as a Diamond level Sombra the strat of unloading into his back has never worked for me, but i always win the 1v1 duel.
Any decent torb doesn't even stand next to their turret
Torbjorn is a small target and his armor packs dof so bras pea shooter no favors.hacking torbjorn is also next to useless. His turret makes hacking difficult and the shotgun makes it asynchronous to be knocked out of cloak
I've tried the sneaking up, but there is invariably someone checking behind them, and I can't aim well enough to win if even 2 of them notice me (granted, I could just abort mission by returning to a translocator, but then I would be potentially feeding enemy support ultimates).

<ramble>
I wish I was actually better at this game, or more to the point, knew how to go about improving. I haven't started my Season 6 placements yet, but I placed low Silver (around 1600) in Season 5, and finished the season at around 1430 (I went on a losing streak after reaching my career high of 1700). Season 5 was my first ever competitive season in any game, and I can't say I feel like I did very well.

I think part of my problem is that I know what I need to do, but I struggle to both communicate and execute it.
</ramble>
"I'd rather just complain..."
250. Common misconception as most players mainly play 200 HP heroes and just think of it as a full heal.
Nope. 250. If you hack them with Sombra they respawn in 4 seconds. This is how pros get EMP every minute in competitions. 
He's very good as part of a team at breaking Orisa's shield at distance. His shots are too slow by himself but full charge shots and scatter arrow represent a lot of burst damage to the barrier. If no one helps him, she will get a new barrier.
I agree (mine's Symm), it's irritating. People think of Torb as just guarding a turret, but a good Torb uses his gun much more and throws down the turret as a distraction/zone-controller/warning system. Also, people don't properly recognize the value of the armor.
Orisa can only deploy one shield at a time, and it only blocks one direction at a time. If she uses it to protect herself against you, then the rest of your team can easily attack her/her team from another angle. In any case, if she deploys a shield to defend against you, then you can still take another position and try again.

Assuming you mean Anubis point B, there's two high ground locations that allow you to shoot over Orisa's shield. I've highlighted them in red:
https://imgur.com/wldXX6l

(original image taken from: https://www.furiouspaul.com/overwatch/temple-of-anubis/capture-b-temple-of-anubis.gif )

Worst case scenario, as mentioned before, is that you force them to huddle even closer together inside their death ball, force them to stay very close to their single shield or force them to hide behind cover. Maybe this is the best you can do but this is already a pretty big victory, especially if they have to dedicate so much attention to just you; you say you have the attention of Bastion/Torb/Orisa/Junkrat which is more than half their team already. Hopefully your other 5 team members are doing something to take advantage of the situation you've created.

If you do all of this, plus get a pick or two, and you still cannot win, then most likely your team was not going to win anyways no matter what you do.

edit: If you're extremely confident in your sniping ability then you can go around the left side and snipe through that doorway, but you have to be ready for Junkrat/Symm to come for you. If you go uncontested in this position then you can likely clear the point all by yourself.
Thats why i love playing pharra sometimes. You can be such a pain in the ass just like a tracer that can survive in the backline but also crush people in seconds with ease. However thats also why i love the buff on bastions recon mode.. However, he should still make usage of turret form.

Also genji is sometimes kinda the same (depending on map) for example against turret and sym turrets once he is able to flank.

I often go for strategys like this in soloQ if i feel like the enemys might go some cancer strats on 2cp maps. You just silently give your team a way to bass the choke.. Thats all they need many times. 
Smart players who can can de-mech DVa and then leave her be so she is useless for the final push? Or better yet kill baby DVa after 5 to 10 seconds
You my good man deserve this: [Reddit Silver](https://i.imgur.com/sy9lVl4.jpg)
No, but it's a lot more painful when bullets go inside
Thanks for chiming in, good to hear the view of a more experienced player (I don't sombra half as much as I bastion).

That surprises me about the duelling - the two hero's base dps is identical, yet sombra has a wide & essentially uncontrollable spread while recon bastion's is tighter than soldier's. Plus while bastion has a pretty huge hitbox, they also have 50% more health that's made of armour.

Maybe you've been duelling bastions that simply aren't very proficient with recon mode? Idk. I'm talking about duels happening in isolation btw, if either hero has their own team chipping in then it's not really a good test condition to draw any conclusion on the matchup from.

Not saying I think you're wrong btw. Just surprised.
I find that the only way to hack his turret is if it's distracted or get's smothered in EMP. In an ideal situation, I'd perfer that Torb is distracted (or better, already killed off) so I can just pop in and out of a corner to take potshots at his turret.

I never bother to hack his turret (I very rarely encounter a situation with a distracted turret anyway) or Torb himself.
He's actually a very easy target; his hitbox is very generous, just like Zenyatta.

Hacking him is low priority unless you anticipate Molten Core, though it can stop him from dumping 300 hp worth of armor during the fight if he's good.
So I should have mentioned the proviso, yeah there's no way this will work if someone has bastion's back! It *has* to be a surprise attack or it's game over. If the bastion is being actively covered then you're better off positioning for a hack instead.
It's not even just burst. Hanzo has high sustained DPS against barn doors.
A good offensive Symmetra is a fantastic boon for a team. Forward teleporters and shield generators are great, a projectile attack that flat out ignores barriers and turrets that make it difficult for the enemy team to reclaim the ground they've lost.

&nbsp;

A shield generator with armor packs is 150 extra hp, which is nothing to be scoffed at.

&nbsp;

Torbjorn I feel is all over the place. His left click is a curving slightly slower version of McCree's gun that can reach enemies behind cover and oneshots a tracer with a headshot. His right click deals up to 150 damage if all pellets hit, and can also headshot, which one or two pellets per shot often will do. This shreds through squishies and tanks alike, especially if they are under turret fire. I think a point blank right click headshot ohko's a Reaper, but that involves a bit of luck. Not so much if that reaper is also under turret fire.

&nbsp;

Your turret essentially allows you to be in two places at once, providing crossfire on your own. Your hammer is the fastest melee attack in the game and it *speeds up during your ult*. Speaking of Molten Core, it turns you into the tank with the most armor in the game, and allows you to spam your right click. You don't even really need a level 3 turret to take a point if you can aim your right click spam during Molten Core. The only thing with more health than you is an ulting Winston, but he doesn't have that ridiculous amount of armor.

&nbsp;

Oh, and you can self heal and provide your teammates with 75 extra health that decreases incoming damage.

&nbsp;

On paper Torbjorn sounds like a combination of 5 other heroes and pretty overpowered in terms of abilities, but his reputation is brought down a lot by people that only build his turret and keep hammering it the entire match.
As a Zen main, I'm unstoppable with a torb turret and 75 armor
You're forgetting a detail, D.Va was the LAST kill I got so she was in the far back. She could've easily flew in from the side (Which she might've been prepared to do) and ulted had I not done anything. You're also forgetting that they were just standing there grinding ult charges so it was either I stepped in and did something or they would've nuked us.

Hell, I've whooped a top 500 from EU's fucking ass in a 1v1 as pre-nerf Hog and he was Tracer for God sake (AKA Impossible to land your one trick pony on, or is it?). Are you seriously going to try to say that I'm fucking stupid?
It comes down to two things.


1. Bastion is a wide target thats easy to focus Sombra's entire spread on. By comparison he has a tight spread but sombra is a skinny target. So the fight is as you said, pretty even on paper.

2. You are usually hacking bastion and aiming at him before he has time to adjust on you. When you pop him out of turret mode, he needs to adapt to using an entirely different kit on the spot, manage his burst, and also find you with his reticle while you are already shooting at him.


In general, I tend to win the engagement but barely. In the event I pull off a hack, and Call it out to my teammates so that they can push forward, so that in the event I escape, they've still gained ground of finished off the bastion.



Disorienting the bastion is a part of hte process, whether you are starting off the fight shooting in his back or hacking him. However, if he's in turret mode, he gets to spin while healing, find you in his target, and burst you down, whereas that option goes away when he's hacked making it a lot less forgiving for the bastion. 
You got in a great death blossom. I wasn't taking that away from you.

You asked how it was possible, after you got a team kill, to still lose the point. I'm pointing out what happened.

You had DVa de-meched. She can't ult or protect as baby DVa. Depending on her aim, it will take her quite a while to build another mech. Even better, if she can be killed after 10 seconds, that severely limits how much time they have for their last push (and you are encouraging them to go without her).

Instead, you team wiped what sounds like a dry-push. They farmed ult, got team killed, and therefore were a full team and had a bunch of ults for their last push.
I think your points in 2. above nail it, though they're also the same
reasons I've found success as sombra / problems as bastion, when sombra sneak-attacks bastion with a clip dump - the element of surprise alone is a massive advantage.

Tbh I suspect the main reason I struggle on the receiving end of a surprise sombra attack is my shitty reactions. If I began healing the instant I started taking damage I might stand a chance, but by the time I react I'm already too low, sombra has the pick. Whereas with a hack I can hear that coming and am already looking to acquire sombra before she's done, so that duel starts off from a more neutral stance. Could well be the case that the whole sneak attack approach is simply more of a low-elo thing.
They already had ults, it was going to be an inevitability that they'd nuke leaving me with two options. Either I could go in, wipe as many people as I could to buy the other two teammates some time to get to the point or just stand there like a jackass and inevitably get nuked with two less teammates on the point.
I mean, you can keep throwing a pity party for yourself, but I never said that getting the 5 man kill was bad.

What is Roadhogs role now?
Other than the obvious "benchwarmer" answer, what is his role? Is he still practically a dps, or is he a tank that can properly do tank things? He is the hero you pick to hook huge targets into your team to get wrecked, (now that ana is eh) discord can allow for the "pick" playstyle to be viable

Also he is the hero picked to punish Winston and DVa when they overextend. I think a large part of the community forgot how devastating hog is towards Winston and DVa, now is a good time to remind them. I think he's a really good tank buster if he stays with the team and doesn't feed to a good tracer
Hes a mid line enforcer against deathball/dive hybrid.

Hes a peeler against full dive. And hes also the shoot me while my team kills you didtraction if hes having good impact.

Hes the shield break momentumn swing against full deathball.

Hes versatile. It depends what your up against.
He's a good doomfist counter if you're getting run over by him.
He's sorta the eye of the shit storm now. Hog is now taking so long to kill that he ends up standing in the middle of the big brawls soaking up damage and smashing anyone who comes in to play with him.   He acts as a rallying point for his team and for enemy fire.  His hook is more for pulling enemies into the fray then just snagging personal kills. 

He pairs surprisingly well with Orisa, function much as he did during the triple tank meta. He sits just behind the shield and sets up a no go zone in front of it while Orisa sits farther back and fires on targets flanking around his back. 
Vector tank 
Hog will always feed its in his nature. To play defensively will yeild no result. Get out there and cause chaos. Disrupt survive disrupt survive. 
Thanks!
No problem if you play pc feel free to add me for advice i main hog between high masters to mid gm as my peak. Haunted#11757
Mind if I get some advice also? I'm. A hog main in diamond looking to make they jump to masters 
Sure thing add me.

How do you fight genji or pharah in close range?
Genji jumps all over me and dashes so I usually miss him and pharah close range screws up my aim because I have to look upFor pharah be patient and use someone who can stun or sustain through the dmg.

Pharah is best med range, so if she's jumping right on top of you it's because she's trying to get a quick kill and thinks you'll go down fast. If not, she is in a lot of danger being closer to your team than hers. A good McCree or hog would shut her down pretty fast.

But besides that pharah will typically be med long range until she sees an opportunity to jump in and confirm a kikk
If your playing 76 and you let her get on top of you she has the advantage since she can two shot you. You'll probably die unless you have helix rocket up. 

That's why you have to be aware of where she is At. 


With genji you just have to predict where he's going to land and shoot a helix at his feet after he deflect - dashes. 


That's why you shoot a helix where you think he's going to land . He has to touch the ground before he can double jump again . 
If Pharah is in youre face just pray she misses her 2-Direct shots, strafe and contest her. Pharha will only jump at certain heroes, those are Sups, Cree, Soldier, Widow, Hanzo(possibly) she knows that shes at disadvantage at Mid range so she will specifically come at very close distance to have better opportunity landing those directs. Usually Pharah will have around 1.5 seconds to kill you for free and after that you can fight it out. If your Soldier/Cree/Hanzo/Zenyata and even Ana best bet is not to run away but just fight it out, at close range aiming at her is fairly easy and she is very squishy, its Tricky for Widow because shes scoped in and stationary those 1.5 seconds, best bet would be just to Hook anything close and then think what to do next. Mercy and Lucio should just run. If Pharah Jump in close proximity to other Heroes shes just unnecessary putting herself at risk and unless you just have no means fighting her, contest. As for specifics about aiming at her, just practice theres no Trick to it, same as with genji, memoryze patterns and at certain point it will come naturally. 
Thing is with genji is he's almost never on the ground and when he is its most likely because he's deflecting
honestly if shes close to you and you can land some headshots you kill her faster. pharah doesent really wanna be that close to you or your team.

I keep losing and losing.
It all started in S5. I got 2 wins 8 losses on placements, got 2450 rank (thank god it placed me so high) and finally made it to Plat.

For like 2 months, I was around the 2600-2650 rank then the last month was horrible. The lowest I've deranked was from 2650 to 2233, but right at the end of the season I got at least 2397.

This season started better. I got 6W-4L and placed 2492 and broke in Plat from my first game. I got a season high of 2583 and then it all started. I lost 3 matches, until 2504, and today I lost another 3 but won 1, and I'm standing at 2444. I'm not just hovering, I'm just losing hundreds of SR right now.

Since S4 I never, but NEVER won more SR for a win than for a loss. Not even one single game. And after 1 lose I get really toxic, and at 2 lost games I quit it off and take a break.

It's frustrating me so hard, but I don't think I can quit competitive. Any tips? I don't have a VOD yet?So what you've said about the games themselves is:


You get angry when things don't go well and take it out on others


You are losing more than you used to


You don't have a vod



So:


Don't get angry


Stop losing 


Post a vod.


I know my advice is super vague, but the info you provided is also super vague.

So, basically, you're losing and don't know why but you don't post a VOD. The only honest advice I can give you that is based on the information you've provided is: Start winning and winning.   

For real though, don't focus on why you lose/win this amount of SR per win/loss, nobody knows for sure how the SR system works, focus on getting better and winning more, best way to do that is to post a VOD.
Is this like a New Season New Me thread?

[Vod] Plat hanzo, tips?
I know my aim is off a bit during some of my close range fights. Not sure if it's because I been changing my sens a bit here and there. I play at 800 dpi 3-4 sens. 
https://youtu.be/NmCK2gggHRoJust going to write down stuff as I see it so apologies in advance if these thoughts don't connect together very well.

Seems to be a lot of hesitation in your shots, and thus you lose a lot of potential damage output for how long you wait. You should be firing your arrow almost immediately (after fully charged) unless the distance is very far (need to take a short amount of time to judge lead distance).

Sonic arrow isn't on CD nearly enough, unless you need it for a specific purpose (checking a certain area, gaining vision before approaching a flank, etc), don't be afraid to use it a lot more often. 

You spend far too much time charging your scatter shot as well, just because zarya's shield is up doesn't mean it's a bad time to scatter. While you're teammate is working to break through that shield you're just standing there watching, if there is pick potential on a hero w/ a bubble up, it is completely acceptable (and encouraged) to deal damage to the bubble to help kill them faster.

Ult with more purpose. You tend to ult nearly on cooldown just generally in the direction of enemies, instead of using it to secure kills, push an objective, or combo with other ults.

One very small thing: If you're using sonic arrow just against a wall or something, no need to fully charge it (most of the time), as it will travel far enough regardless. Getting vision a quarter of a second faster can make all of the difference sometimes.

In terms of positioning, hang out on the high ground more often, not only will it be tons easier to land most of your shots, but you'll be under much less pressure,  keeping your shots less spammy (hopefully). Your Hanzo play isn't that bad generally, but it's certainly a bit sluggish. Definitely try watching "pro hanzo" players like Wraxu and simply work to emulate their positioning,  ability usage, and ult timing. Watch when and where a good hanzo places their sonic arrows, watch when they utilize a scatter arrow vs a charged arrow, etc. 

GL with climbing the competitive ladder!
Oh btw I didnt know it was open mic for the recording so sorry in advance! I had a few itches in the back of my throat ;p
You are spamming your skills, apart from the bastion your scatter arrow feels like it lacks purpose. Sonic should do more to have awareness on flankers. Make the most out of your wall climb ability. And most importantly, playing projectile heroes doesnt mean you can slack off on aiming, because the close range shots are basically hitscan, if thats uncomfortable for you then try to find your comfort range and try to keep your enemy around there

P.S. dont just shoot at what you can see, predict enemy movement and spam around the corners to punish hitscans who half peek (as in hitscans who dont reveal all of their hitbox but enough to be able to shoot around the corner, generally their head hitbox will be right at the border of the corner.)
So all in all, here's the flaws that I saw. 1) On offense oh could've capped both points a lot faster if you had prioritized their mercy.  At 1:45, you were shooting the Zarya/Orissa while the mercy beam was attached to them and mercy was in full view, that's the first time I noticed it. From this point onwards you missed the mercy several times for about 20 seconds. 

Next, the high ground. So for the second point, if you had taken the high ground on the left or right and just poked out from the room (which you did do) you probably would've held that point and capped it. Looking at their team comp, there's really no one on their that can touch you if you positioned yourself better there. Although you did take the high ground, you dropped off it several times and tried to fight on the point and you probably should've died sooner. So right there was just purely positioning. 

Next, on defense. You positioned yourself badly on the first point. The second you saw that widow you should've dropped off from that little edge by the choke immediately. You should've either got on the building with the small health pack under it, by the choke, stayed behind the shield the entire time and spammed arrows instead of climbing back up there, or just been in the back of the point picking them off as they started coming in. 

Other than that, you're sonic arrow was on CD a lot more jab it should have and you should just fire it off honestly because it helps with zoning. 

I'm not gonna say anything about your accuracy because hanzo isn't an accurate hero by nature (projectile sniper with fall off)

And last thing. Because he's an inaccurate hero by nature he genuinely isn't a good hero to run on defense. You had 1 healer on defense, and low DPS (you and torb were the dps) and mercy. If you had ran a soldier you would've been able to provide more dps and heals for the team. 


But that's just me, gl improving everything
Thank you! I watch wraxu almost daily. I think I just need to play with people who are better than I am to help show me the better spots. But yes I agree with everything you said. Looking back at my vod I noticed a lot of things I need working on as well.
Thanks! I do admit I was doing poorly this game. I usually get kills with my scatters! But thanks for the advice. I will try to use sonics on flankers more often.
Thanks for the input. I think that game wasnt my best for him. But I will take your advice, stay on high ground longer during the fights and only fall down if I need to cap it. I want to get better on him! I try to play him as much as I can. During placements I won 9 games with him out of 10 then moved up 150+ more sr and dropped again. 
https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=SR3DiOwRxVo

this may help
Thanks! I will check it out.

Where to aim when engaging an enemy ?
As the title says, I'm struggling to decide weather it's better to always aim for headshots to take down opponents quicker(as the expense of possible missing more shots) vs. aiming for center mass and landing significantly more shots overall. 

I tried crunching the numbers but i'm a stupid and I can't tell which really pulls ahead in overall TTK. To clarify further, I'm more focused on hit scan heroes(i.e Sombra/Soldier/McCree) 

I wouldn't even consider going solely for headshots with projectile heroes like Gengi and Lucio for obvious reasons. Anyway, thanks in advanced for any input.  Aim for the neck. You kind of get the best of both worlds. If you hit the neck it counts as a head shot. If you miss upwards by a pixel or two (depending on your distance from target) you're likely to still hit the head and if you miss down then you still hit a body shot. This doesn't correct for horizontal aim being off but does help increase the likelihood of landing shots in general.
The only characters where headshots are required to be decent are McCree, widow, and hanzo imo. I'm talking at least 1 headshot out of a clip and a few body to confirm kills. 

They still do a lot with bodyshots but that brings up their ttk a lot compared to others due to how punishing a miss is. Ppl with sustain dmg can miss those headshots and still afford a lot of ammo, and have the fire rate, to bring an enemy down.

Otherwise aim for the neck like others suggested 
V.good suggestions, I will definitely out them to practice when I get home shortly. Thank you all for the input ! 
There's also a weird mechanical exploit for high spray heroes like tracer and sombra.  The space between a heroes legs is not empty space, it counts as a hit. And a hero who is strafing left or right ends up with a hit box that is twice as wide at the bottom as it is at the top. For close range shots against a skinny hero, aiming extra low can help ensure  more hits while spraying.   

For accuracy shooting aim for neck. For really long shots aim low center mass.   For tanks aiming for head is probably worth it. 
That makes sense. I think I'll give that a shot. Would you still recommend this for say Zenyatta ? Would the discord orbs override the need for the headshots or would it be beneficial to still go for the neck instead of body ? 
I would say yes but you still need to account for the projectile time. Basically lead horizontally while vertically you're at about the neck
I would say keep aiming for the neck. Same rules apply only headshots also receive the 30% increased damage.

If memory serves, regular damage is 46 per orb and with discord would make it 60. So a headshot orb would deal 120 damage. That's how you 2 shot 200 hp squishies.

Zenyatta - Best maps/modes?
Zenyatta is often touted as being amazing on defense, where there's long sight lines. 

But in the pro scene he's used more On koth and offense. Why is that?

 What are his best modes/maps?Strange, Zen is generally much better on attack than he is on defense. 

Zen can be used in every situation, he's rarely a bad pick. If you are solo queuing or in a team with bad communication I would not use him on most KOTH maps (He's great on Nepal) unless you like the look of the spawn room.
I'm not a pro, but my take is that usually zen and ana contest the healer slot. So ana thrives on defense more than zen actually, with scoped healing, and she really likes the high ground + long lines of sight. On the other hand, zen's discord is so powerful that he's used on offense - discording key targets and calling out to your team will shred the discorded targets in no time. (especially since the opponents are defending, they'll be fixed on the objective usually)
Can I add a question to the OP.  Why are these his best maps/modes?
zen is great on koth and attack in general

ana is best played on defense but can do both, hanamura and numbani are great ana maps

lucio god on koth, great on attack, good on def

mercy good on def, pretty bad for koth without pharah, pretty bad for attack too if no pharah
What do you think of the following: Zen on attack, mercy defense, Lucio koth?
>  I would not use him on most KOTH maps

why do you say this? this is just wrong, zen is best on koth. go check zen pickrates on koth.
i disgaree. usually you wanna have two off supports(lucio, zen) if you play a dive heavy or dps heavy comps(dva-winston or even winston-zarya, winston-3dps) 

for comps that include two or more tanks, espeically rein you wanna have ana or mercy but ana is better imo + lucio

you will always need lucio on koth and attack basically, you could cut him on defense though.

worst combo is ana + mercy
Ana is not bad for volskaya defense, especially if the fights break out on the points itself.
If you want to simplify things then yeah, that's correct. 
Zen on attack, ana on defense, zen on koth.
Lucio is usually a must pick lol.
Mercy is situational I guess? She can probably replace ana if the player is more comfortable with mercy's playstyle. 
I actually like playing Ana or Zen on attack and Mercy on defense. Nanoboost is excellent for making your offense snowball into victory
I literally explained why before that part of my comment. 
To clarify I meant zen or ana contesting one healer slot. The other slot is usually lucio. I did not mean zen and ana as healers, not saying they are unviable completely together or anything. But yeah, it depends on the tank lineup.

Edit: added the word 'together' for clarification
yeah i didnt metnion every map obv
Mercy vs ana also depends a lot on rank. In high silver/low bronze, mercy can actually output more healing than ana simply because no one can aj 
Mercy isn't as situational on console where Ana is not usually viable.
Mercy when it's a pharah map. And sombra on sombra maps
you said zen is bad on koth, which is just plainly wrong. its his strongest map mode.
> If you are solo queuing or in a team with bad communication
doesent matter that much. i solo q all the time, no issues whatsoever. maybe your communication is just bad? ever thought about that? 

also its not that importnat to repick hero just because of that
Why is he strongest on koth? His ult?
damage, discord, dive comps, his ult

How long does it take to get out of a rank?
Theoretically if I were a diamond player (not that I am), how long would it take me to get out of silver?

I'm losing and winning and vice versa and it seems like it's taking forever, how do I know if I should be changing my play or What heroes I'm actually performing well on?If you're losing just as many matches as you're winning, you've plateaued and the matchmaker has you in the right place for the moment. If you want to climb you'll need to improve. You'll know you're improving when you start winning more often than losing. 

There's no hard measure for how long any of this takes. Say someone wants to learn to play guitar, how long it takes will be down to aptitude and how much practice they put in. It's unique for every person. 
As a Diamond player I tested pretty much this exact scenario. I played as poor as possible without throwing to get a new account placed at 1480. It took 20 games to hit gold playing lucio only, which I don't normally play often.

I felt lucio was a good way to do this, as I wasn't stomping the other team, just supporting my own team and making them do better than normal. 
post vods, silver is easy to climb. plat to diamond is a bit harder.
If you play a lot, it should only take a couple of days to get to your rank if you really are good. My friend and I climbed like 400 sr within 2 days. She's now high silver while I'm high gold, and our goal for this season is at least platinum, which I feel is where we really belong for now.

So to properly answer your question, if you belong to diamond but you're currently placed at silver, if you play a lot, I think you could get there in like a week or so
The shittiest thing about OW, is that you can be a Diamond level player and never make it out of gold. I have read dozens of stories where people talk about how they have been stuck in Gold forever, bought a new account, and am now playing at Mid Diamond or even Masters level. Unlike a game like CS:GO where you can effectively 1v5 the whole enemy team, you can only realistically carry so hard in OW.
If you were a Diamond player, you could carry yourself out of Silver in a few hours. Much to my regret, I let one of my friends talk me into deranking in Season 3 and it barely took us any time at all to get back to near our rank. Getting out of, say, Plat as a Diamond is a different story. You can play well there, but straight up carrying doesn't happen often. That takes you a good few days of consistent play.

If you're at the point where climbing to the next rank is taking more than a week or two then you're probably levelling out, and just need to play/practice or watch VODs/ioStux to improve.
Does this count for soloQ or multiQ?
This is the best answer. If you're going 50/50, then you've matched your MMR and the game has you where you belong. If you want to keep climbing, you need to increase your MMR. The only way to do that is consistently play better, which means you have to improve as a player. The more you improve, the faster you'll climb.

The easiest comparison would be looking at players that have decayed. MMR doesn't decay, so their MMRs are significantly higher than 3000 and they climb up quickly, getting 80+ SR per win.
I think this is more the exception than the general case. Most players deserve the rank they're at and they simply feel entitled to having a higher rank. Getting a new account in most cases doesn't make a difference. That said, there are a few players who improve dramatically in a short period of time and are held down as their MMR adjusts.
..sure but how many of those players actually *maintained* that higher level on their new account? How many just fluked their way onto a higher rung then either neglected to mention dropping down afterwards, or blamed it on the usual bad teammates / decay excuses, or plain left their alts right where they placed so they could point to it and say that's where they 'really' belong without having to do any work to maintain it?

I'm not suggesting this is everyone but.. any matchmaker will have a hard time placing you accurately with low information, making it highly prone to placing you either too low or too high early on.
Should count for both.

If you do a 6 stack and you trade winning and losing, then you need to improve your communication, coordination, and focus fire.

If you do solo queue, you can probably get away with improving mechanics and game sense without communicating much. Once you get to higher levels like Masters+, that's when you need to be able to communicate what you see, what you're doing, and what the team should do (like focus firing, what ults are up for enemy team, what ults you should use, etc).

Where can I get my VODs reviewed?
I'm a high diamond/low masters player looking to get my Tracer VODs reviewed, anyone know where to start looking?post them here 
I'm not sure why the link disappeared from the side bar, but OW Uni has a [flowfeedback to which you can post VODs](https://flowfeedback.com/group/overwatchuniversity). It's a great tool for people looking to improve. Since it's been removed, you might want to put up there anyways and then post a link to it on this subreddit.

Does anyone else not use rocket punch to kill with doomfist?
In the beginning when doomfist was on the ptr I loved to use his rocket punch to zoom in and kill folks, it was the funnest. But after the range nerfs, and now his tiny hitbox, I find myself just not using his "oh so strong one shot" for killing at all, it's just a useful tool to escape to health packs or get into fights.

Half the time I hit someone they slide along a wall instead of taking damage, or I miss them and clip through their models. I get a respectable kill to death ratio just getting in close to seismic slam, uppercut, and then headshot, but every time I try to use his punch aggressively instead of as a mobility tool I miss and die.

Am I doing it wrong? I've watched some YouTube vids of like, 8 different people claiming to be the top 1 doomfist but it seems they either use a lot more punching or do some geography trickshot with their moves to get kills that I can't really replicate at my skill level of high silver. 

I guess I'm just asking, does anyone else also not really use doomfist punch for killing, or should I use it a lot more for killing even if it's bugged?I can't say for certain but punch sure as hell feels bugged. I get that same clipping through character models all the time. I've rocket punched through/over sleeping targets before, which is annoying as hell. I've slammed down in front of a Junk trap (so the damage lands on the trap, not my character) yet instead of breaking the trap it just pulls me into it. Literally, yanks me into the trap from a full body width away. I'm incredibly annoyed at the nerf but more so at the community for crying about it so badly. Sure, it needed some trimming to stop from clipping people through walls and such but to nerf it so small is just pathetic. Its so bad now that you can't even connect with people you hid directly any more. About the only thing I seem to consistently hit are tanks because their hit boxes are so freaking large. I don't specifically ignore rocket punch as a means to kill someone but I do find a good half of my kills or more are coming from shotgun, uppercut, and slam.
if its clearly bugged then wait until a fix, and never disregard an ability like that.
Sounds like old rein. It took them a whole season to fix rein so buckle up for the wait
For as much hate as DF has, I expect it to be a hell of a wait for sure. If people aren't complaining then Bliz isn't likely to get around to it quickly.

Troubles with Close Range
When I first started playing this game a year ago as my first fps game, my aim was considerably bad. I think I had an accuracy rate of about 9%. Fast forward to now, I've gotten significantly better at tracking, but I still have some major problems with shooting up at close range. I just feel like a complete idiot when I'm playing tracer against other tracers or dueling a symmetra on soldier up close. I think my hands tense up without me noticing, and then I end up missing a billion shots. Is there any real way to practice this? I've been trying death match and 1v1 modes, but these days I feel like they add to my stress... as well as lowering my self-esteem.
 AimHero helped me a lot (and no i dont get money from them even tho I recommend it a lot).

In the past I was kind of physical unable to aim proper with Hitscans like Cree, Ana, Widow. My mousehand literally cramped up and I somehow kept pressing my mouse "into" the mousepad. It was horrible.
After one week with aim hero this nearly totally disapeared. And I learned the mystery of flickshots done right + my tracking got on a whole new level.  I do my AimHero drills nearly daily before I launch overwatch.
Practice more, if you feel like the 1v1 losses are lowering your self esteem then you definitely didnt have enough practice to back up your confidence, also the methods you use to practice may be wrong
There are two things I can think of that might help you figure it out. 

First, when you're up close your movement has a bigger impact on how you move your mouse to track your opponent. Practice using your movement to put yourself in a spot that is easier for you to land shots and harder for your opponent. Also there is a cost/benefit to juking and dodging because it affects your aim.

Second, try to predict where your opponent is going to move. It takes some practice, but you'll get a feel for the types of jukes players use.

Oh and a bonus tip about movement vs Symmetra. Just back pedal so she can't get into your face and track her stupid jumps. Symmetra players tend to walk in straight lines and jump when then attach their beam. Since your movement won't help you dodge any of her damage, don't do any complicated movement.
Well that depends on yor Problem.

Close range missing can mean a lot of stuff.

for example you tried to improve your aim by lowering your dpi but overtuned it so much it did hurt your movement. You could higher your sens to fix it.

Or you used to Play longrange heroes and just have no practice in the more and more closeranged meta. You could go to the practicerange lowground and 180° shot bot 90° shoot bot 180° ....

What IS your Problem. Can´t you track them? can´t you flick? Can´t you turn around fast enough when they circle you? Do you get stuck Walking backwards when trying to adjust range on the run?  Do you overshoot (the crosshair passes the enemy? can´t you predict the enemy (Like where will Tracer end after a blink / recall)?

1000s of Problems with different Solutions to each.
You can't escape Symmetra by backpedaling, so you might as well walk forwards.
It's a way to win the duel. You walk backwards so she stays at about the same distance from you while you shot at her. That makes shooting her easier since she will be pretty much in the same spot on your monitor.

Using Junkrat's ultimate effectively
So the common reaction when hearing FIRE IN THE HOLE is to scatter like mice which usually gives only 1 kill (apparently no one has the guts to try and shoot the tire yet at my level) So I guess the best time to use it would be when my team is engaging?

Also is it a good idea to try and use riptire whenever you have it, or wait for some kind of uber-team wiping scenario?Run it into a wall to mute the sound of the tire a bit. It becomes harder to hear, the enemy gets distracted by your team, then boom. 

I use it whenever I have it and there's a possibility of either taking out a key piece of the enemy push/defense or when I can get at least a double kill and put my team at a significant advantage. You earn your ult so quickly if you play right, why bother hanging on to it?
Idk if they changed it but the tie does more damage on the ground than in the air so when you dive "bomb" with the tire make sure it lands on the ground to maximize the damage

Orisa shield placement for dummies
On defense, generally the shield goes right in front of you, up a few feet. If you have another shield ready go ahead and shoot it straight up to be more efficient. 

On offense, shoot it farther forward and be more aggressive with the shields. It lets your dps move up and often seperates their healers out especially if they have an Ana.  You can't march forward with it like Rein so just shoot it forward and move up to it! Too many times I play Mcree and the Orisa doesn't shoot far enough forward with the shield on offense, so I can't move up for killsAnother Orisa shield tip when on offense!

If the enemy team is running an Orisa too, wait for the enemy Orisa to place their shield, then place yours over/beyond the enemy shield. Play aggressive with your team and force the enemy team to play without their shield.
Thanks for the tip. The offense shield placement seems like a good idea. I'll try it out.
Really good advice. If it's a payload I definitely like to keep my shield in front of the payload where we're moving to rather than where we are. Proactive placement! Cool to see some Orisa tips; love her a lot personally.
This is my biggest pet peeve with Orisa players on attack. So frequently they will fire their shield only 4 inches in front of herself, not realizing that her team needs that shield to push up.

I don't often get tilted in game, but something about this annoys the hell out of me when it happens; It feels like getting blueballed, with the objective just a few meters in front of you but constantly unable to push it because your maintank isn't pushing barrier up.
Make sure it's shot clearly around corners and away from walls. If it's clipping into the wall next to it, it's placed wrong. Move it away so it's not clipped to get maximum coverage/surface area. This applies to Rein standing too close to a wall and it's baffling how many people shortchange their coverage.
Any more Orisa tips/resources? I primarily main support but the beginning of this season I've found my self playing tank role more often (kinda want to switch it up from pure supporting) and I've been having fun with Orisa! I'm currently at 3010 and my goal for this season is to get to mid Diamond. 
Orisa main here - the key is to use the shield's geometry to your advantage. Far too many Orisa players simply throw the shield in front of them when charging ahead, even though you could turn 90 degrees and shoot the shield so that a wall creates 100% coverage. I would say about 80% of my shields are full coverage shields, unless they're placed on the payload. Also, shooting the shield ahead during payload pushes can trick the enemy team into thinking the payload if further ahead than it actually is. Sometimes it's best to push ahead with another hero, which stops the enemy team from being able to contest.
Your advice to put the shield close on defense is terrible.   The shield should be protecting the choke. Orisa on the other hand should NOT be standing in that choke.   Orisa's fusion cannon is most effective with a smaller arc of fire and some distance from target and she struggles most against close quarters enemies.    

Don't shoot your shield up in the air. It's a cheesy thing to do and if your shield is destroyed while your next one is in the air you end up vulnerable. The shield has a long up time and short cool down There's no reason to do these silly throws when you could wait and drop it when and where it's needed. 



On offense you are absolutely correct. 
Each shield drop should be positioned to where your team is and where your team plans to be eight seconds from now.   If you're taking ground throw it ahead so that you can keep waddling forward all the way till cooldown resets.    The perfect advanced shield should land between reaper and his target. 

A firing Orisa waddles so slowly you can't afford to stop advancing because your shield came up short. 

     On escort maps that shield should be moving to the inside corner of each turn as long as you've got the payload moving. It should give the rest of the team a safe shooting point rather then giving you a safe shooting spot. 

     When you're taking the point it should be -ideally- a three shield progression. Choke, front of point, blocking respawn path.   Win the shield fight, start the push then hold the point. It shouldn't take longer then 16 seconds for a push to move from choke to securing point. And the shield should be moving at least that fast.  


Orisa's whole kit HELPS your team mate more then it helps herself. The less selfishly you use her cooldowns the more impact you will have.   Her shields and her Halts should be meant to aid your team more then yourself.  A high altitude halt to pull targets into open ground should be to give your DPS a clean shot more then giving you a clean shot. 
That achieves nothing. They are still shooting your shield while being blocked by their shield, and you are still shooting their shield while being blocked by your shield.

ENEMY ----> YOUR SHIELD ___ ENEMY SHIELD <---- YOU

Their shield is still blocking your projectiles, and your shield is still blocking their projectiles.

NO ONE is playing without a shield here.
This tip is better more for Orisa. You do this as Rein so you don't have to travel as far to get into cover. Think Numbani highground doorway. You stand to the left, where the right side of your shield covers the entire door. If you drop shield, you won't get hooked or feed ult.

Orisa is separate from her shield so she can plop shield down and move after.
A couple more simple ones!

You want to use fortify before your armor is depleted because you get more damage blocking percentages. 

Your body is huge and you can use it to block friendlies from dying. 

If you're getting flanked stand and move around in the shield, it blocks hopefully enough damage. 

Unless you have a specific reason to, like pulling someone off a ledge or into a lot of damage, you want to pull the enemy straight up. It's easier to track for your team, and it slows them down for longer. You'd be surprised how many sniper kills happen because of a good halt. 
Not if you walk through their shield:

ENEMY ---> YOUR SHIELD <---- YOU - ENEMY SHIELD
It's better because it's the furthest up you can throw your shield in that situation. It warrants being said because a lot of people don't realize it's the same like you're saying and will throw their shield just a little bit up. But on attack it's still advantageous because it's as far as you can extend until something else happens
Well, if you're already past their shield, of course you're not gonna put your shield behind you. This was for when you're behind their shield.
The original suggestion was (emphasis added):

If the enemy team is running an Orisa too, **wait for the enemy Orisa to place their shield, then place yours over/beyond the enemy shield**.

So no, this was not for when you're behind their shield. The whole point is to put your shield beyond the enemy Orisa's and then walk through hers, so that you make her shield useless until she has a new one.

Is Triple Tank making a comeback???
I was interested in knowing if Triple Tank was making a comeback into the Game. Assuming the PTR changes for Mercy come onto Live. Will the Game start seeing a rise of the Triple Tank comp?It might. Bringing a tank back to life gives the team a huge HP boost. But if it's Zarya, her energy is back to 0. If it's Roadhog, it's probably even more ult charge for the enemy team.

I can see team comps that revolve around one hero (such as Pharah or Bastion) becoming more popular though. Previously if the enemy team managed to kill that important player, Mercy had to choose to use her ult on that one player or save it for when multiple teammates died. With the new changes, she will just instantly resurrect the important player and keep the fight going.
mercy would not see play in triple tank, ana is goto support for tank heavy comps and will always be
> I can see team comps that revolve around one hero

those are only good comps in sub plat tbh
I don't know why all the downvotes for this comment. While I may disagree with many things you say there are things you make a good point about as well. Mercy wouldn't see a ton of play in a triple tank set up. Triple tank just sets the stage for Ana to shine as a healer. She has the highest healing out put in the game providing she can land her shots. 3 big, slow moving tanks make her job a lot easier. Mercy loses mobility in these slower, tightly packed comps like triple tank. It doesn't mean she wouldn't see play, however, it just means she would likely be played less.

On the flip side, her rework, while still preferred to pair with a more mobile comp, would still allow her some decent utility in a triple tank set up. Especially with the new res. Triple tank can be difficult to stop and when one tank goes down it's just one layer against a tough defense that gets peeled off. Having a res right out of the gate to pick up one of those tanks makes t-tank that much more difficult to stop.
...you can still run "triple tank" with solo DPS and dual support...

Ana? Mercy? why not both...especially teamed with an all purpose DPS like Soldier. 
So they are relevant for more than 50% of the playerbase then. 
That's not really true--even pro teams kind of work this way, building their team around a particular syngergy or strat, like nano-blade, for instance. Doesn't mean the other players on the team aren't great players, it just means that they all understand the role they play in accomplishing a goal, and are good at fulfilling their roles. This is what a lot of players in ladder don't understand, you have to play this game from the perspective of every hero supporting one another, from every member of your team fulfilling a role in a strategy. Too many players are effectively playing their own game every match.
> She has the highest healing out put in the game

With the rework, Mercy technically gets a huge boost in healing output given characters with high hp. (Because rezzing Reinhardt is a huge amount of "team health" regained.)

You have good points with regards to Ana, but Mercy's a solid choice here too.
thats soooo bad. you miss out on speedboost and discord, absolute nogo
not really because those people dont care that much or do mistakes, making it less good. those defensive comps, espeically bastion usually wont work on higher elo because players know how to beat it so its simply to weak. the sweetspot where those strats work without too many mistakes is probably gold.
Res isn't the same thing as healing. Healing is preventing death which isn't the same as providing life. I understand the "effective" healing you're talking about because in a sense it is kind of like a burst heal of a character's maximum health bringing them from 0 to full, but in regards to sustainable healing out put no one beats Ana providing you're landing shots.

Ideally, it's always better to prevent the death of a character in the first place than to have to bring one back from the dead. This is one major reason why I've always been a proponent of Sym absolutely being a support and in some sense a healer. Preventing damage to a character's health pool is ideal over having to replenish it in the first place. But, that's a whole other discussion for a completely different thread.
I think you are missing the point I was trying to make. Just because it isn't viable at high level, doesn't mean the strategy is useful for a large portion of the player base. You can see [here](https://overwatchtracker.com/insights/skillrating?platform=global) that around 50% of the population sits below Platinum so when you say "those comps are only good in sub plat" you are speaking to half the people who play the game. 
yes but because they are plat they do mistakes easier and you can beat them becauase of that. if that comp would be so good that high elo games would run them, then it would be an issue.

this however isnt. also the players that win games with this will rank up eventually by this logic if the comp is good.

lets take junkrat for example(before buffs)

people in gold often think junkrat is op/good on certain maps. however, junrkat is a pretty garbage hero. by the logic of that gold player that calls junkrat op, the junkrat player would have a good winrate and a good winrate would mean he would rank up, but he doesent because junkrat most likely will have close to 50% winrate and thats why he is gold. 

same goes for bastion and all those cheese comps

its hard to explain, but those comps arent an issue really.


You sound as if you're discussing GM's playing against Plats. "Plats make mistakes therefore they're easy to beat."

Sure, it's easy to theoretically beat these comps in any level of ranked play, but if you're playing in that rank you're making the same mistakes that keep losing to that kind of team comp. It's easy to say "they're doing *this* so just do *that* to counter," but execution isn't as easy as recognize what should be done.

The overall point that I think is being made here, and kind of answers OP's question too, is that in all ranks under the highest level, there is no real "meta" to begin with. It doesn't ultimately matter what strategy the pros come up with because the rest of us pleebs can't execute the same kind of strategy with anywhere near the same effectiveness. It didn't matter that dive comps have been so popular until recently because protect the president can still win in Plat just as easy as a dive comp could. 

Ultimately, it doesn't matter what is done at the higher levels of play. The meta there, the strategies used, the team comps designed, none of it really matters to the majority of the player base because we're all playing very different games throughout the ranks.

Junkrat and Bastion and other "cheese" heroes/comps may flourish in Gold or Plat or where ever. That's fine. They work in those levels. Anyone ranking up with that kind of character will learn as they reach higher ranks that they aren't going to continue going higher if that character is not performing at the higher levels. Bastion may win everything in Bronze but he doesn't hardly win much in Plat. If someone ranked up to Plat on Bastion alone then they'll either be a damn good Bastion who can navigate the limitations and disadvantages he would have at higher ranks, or they'll learn to play someone else if they want to keep progressing. That's just learning. That's part of the game as you increase your rank.
> lets take junkrat for example

I understand what you are saying, but just because something isn't a viable strategy all the way through the ranks of Overwatch, doesn't make it unviable for someone to climb several hundred SR to where the strategy is no longer viable. 

The importance of Resource Management (incl. Coaching Giveaway!)
Hey, ioStux here!

Resource Management is not as binary as many players think, and its super important on every single character in the game. I wanted to share some Insight on the intricacies of Resource Management, since this is a skill that comes in handy no matter what game you play =)

I am also running a Professional Coaching Giveaway at the moment! If you want to participate and get a shot at some High Tier Coaching, just visit iostux.com/giveaway !

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p5e8av2hM2o

Transcript:

In Todays Video I want to get into Resource Management. Resource Management is important for basically everything making it a very fundamental and important skill. Managing your health, your shields, your cooldowns, ability charges and your ultimates!

But first, let's explain why managing your resources is such an important skill. It is about maintaining a balance between efficiency and effectiveness.

Let's take McCree's Flashbang for example. The cooldown isn't very long, meaning that in theory, you can use it a lot during the game. If you would use it on cooldown in a 20-minute game you could use it a total of 120 times. But you don't obviously. Noone uses their flashbang as soon as it's up, and if you die regularly you can't really use your ability in that time either. You wait for the right opportunities! Sometimes you save your flashbang to kill that pesky Tracer running behind you, and that is completely normal.

So you need to make a decision. Obviously, you want to use as many flashbangs as you can, in an ideal scenario you could use your flashbang 120 times and every time it would lead to a kill. But you also want to maximize the chances of each flashbang actually doing something. Think of your flashbang like a dice roll. If you use your flashbangs sooner you get to throw more dice in a game. But the longer you wait for each flashbang the higher the chance that it's actually going to do something. That is resource management. Trying to create as many opportunities as possible while also having a decent chance at taking those opportunities.

The crucial thing to understand is that cooldowns are a resource. You can have up to 120 cooldowns on your flashbang in a game, but only if you use it immediately. If you don't use it immediately you aren't cooling it down. Imagine if Flashbang had 120 charges. That way you wouldn't need to rush your flashbangs at all because they are recharging even if you don't use them immediately. That is why a charge system on Tracer, for example, is so strong. You don't have to use your blinks immediately, since you can have up to 3 charges. Obviously, once you have all 3 charges you aren't regenerating blinks anymore, which means that you are losing potential resources, in this case, a cooldown again.

The same thing applies to ultimates as well. Let's take Mercies old Rez. Back then her resurrect was her ultimate, and it could bring as many corpses around her back to life. So Mercy players need to make a choice. Use their rezzes as quickly as possible so that they can regenerate another one? Or should they wait until they get a lot of value?

You could hold onto your rez for very long, and that would boost your average amount of players rezzed per ultimate used by a lot. But while you hold onto your ultimate, you cannot regenerate any more ult charge. The worst case is that you hold your ult so long, that you could have charged a second one in the mean time if you had used it earlier! You need to maximize the ultimates you get, while also maximizing the value you get out of each ability.

The same thing applies to abilities like Reinhardt's Shield as well. Obviously, you want to block as much damage as possible, but that isn't always the smartest move. If you watch high-level Reinhardt players you will see that they drop their shield regularly exposing their team, because they want to make sure that their average amount of shield available gets as high as possible!

The sooner you use your abilities and ultimates, the sooner you will get them back. That is really important.

Abilities like Reinhardt's fire strike need to be maximized. Ideally on cooldown, because the chances of it hitting are very high, so holding onto it for long ends up not really being the most efficient way of generating ult charge.

Abilities like Tracers Recall or Genji's Deflect are also really important resources. Genji, for example, is a character that needs to go really deep. Imagine Genji not having his deflect. Imagine blizzard just removing that ability. You would probably play incredibly passive because you don't have that second chance button anymore. Whereas if you have your deflect available you can afford to go a lot more aggressive since if anything goes wrong, your deflect can buy you the time you need to get out. Same thing with Recall. 

So the more aggressive you play, the more deflect you use each game. If you have your Deflect or Recall available you do NOT want to wait around too long. You want to maximize your pressure on the enemy team, getting behind the enemy team and drawing their attention. This way you will maximize both the effectiveness and the efficiency of your Recall. 

So how do you improve you resource management?

First, use some references. Hop onto Youtube and watch the gameplay of your favorite Pro Players. Focus on 1 ability at a time. Let's take something like Zarya's bubble for example. You don't want to just spam that ability because you may end up with 0 energy gained, but you also don't want to wait too long because it will lower the amount of barriers you get to use in a single game. Watch the Pro player play and see how he handles his bubbles. How does his playstyle change once his personal barrier becomes available? Does he use his personal barrier very frequently or does he save it for quite a while until he really needs it? Try to understand the thought process behind that 1 ability. That is really important, focus on ONE ability at a time! Once you think you understand how the ability works, go in game and focus on that 1 ability. So you would go in game, pick Zarya, and keep your eyes peeled on your personal Barrier. As soon as it's up try to get into a very aggressive position and use it asap. Try to use it as often as you can without sacrificing the amount of charge you gain. If you do this for long enough it will become second nature, and you will subliminally track that cooldown and play more aggressive as soon as you get it up. Once you feel confident in that one ability, you can keep going with the other abilities. You can do the same procedure with your projected Barrier, and finally with your Ultimate.

Resource Management is incredibly important. You will NEVER have perfect resource management, but you want to get as close to 100% efficiency as possible. You want to use your abilities as often as you can while getting as much value out of them as you can. It is much better to Solo Dead Eye 5 times than get a Triple Kill with it once. The faster you use your abilities, the faster you'll get to use them again.
Good video like usual, can I add that I really like your new site. Awesome stuff!
Great video. I just have one question though. Is Hanzo's scattershot a luck based ability? I mean, I just keep dying to him, over and over.
You take way too long to explain things, and you kept repeating the same stuff over. Try to be succinct with your explanations and stick to the key points without elaborating too much. If you need to elaborate maybe try something like bullet points for each key point
You kind of have to aim it properly but yeah in some cases it might feel like luck but if you know the cooldown you can easily work around it. It's what Hanzo needs to be viable :P
Thanks for zhe feedback! I usually repeat myself a bit to make sure that people realize its important but I will think about it in the future!
yo dawg i heard you like coaching so i put some coach coaching in your coach thread so you can coach the coach while the coach coaches

(*counts on fingers*.... yea i think that made sense)

Seriously though, it's a really easy mistake to make especially if you spend most of *your* time watching us showing you that we need to be told it a few more times. Great series though, always good to see these ideas from a different perspective!
that joke went over your head like a satellite
Mine too, apparently.
care to explain?
On ioStux's website, the same question is in the FAQ :)
Iostux posed it as a dumb question in one of his videos

How to overcome a losing streak?
I've gone on quite a large losing streak (~2900-~2600) and was wondering how others have overcome their losing streaks. I have tried playing other games or just sleeping and stopping for the night but my gameplay seems to only be getting worse. What did you guys do to un-tilt/get back on trackDon't focus on streaks and winning or losing. When you do it'll tilt you and you'll place worse without realizing it. That's how most loss streaks happen for me anyways.
My losing streaks end when I win a game.. 

(Just take a break for few days?)
I just keep playing until I win one. Realize that whether you win or not is often out of your control and your stress level when it comes to losing drops dramatically. Loss streaks may have little bits of your play here and there as blame, but in the grand scheme of things, you probably didn't cause yourself to lose 7 games straight unless you got really emotional or something.

Of course, the flip side is when you go on a 7 game win streak, realize that, while you were definitely helping out, a lot of that was also luck.

A lot of people say keeping a spreadsheet of your results helps to take the emotional aspect out. I'm not terribly sure it's not just that the type of person to make spreadsheets out of gameplay data isn't one to let their emotions take control of them in the first place. But if it helps someone, that's a win.
Just take a break. Come back in a few days or even a week. As long as decay's not a problem, there's no reason to play every day. 

But as long as you're focused on that streak, it's gonna just drag you down. You need a clear mind and to just focus on the game and be in the moment.

Also, streaks don't matter much. You'll get back to your MMR in no time, so focus on improving and you'll get to a higher rank in the long run.

Been 3 seasons and the highest I've gotten is 1700s...what am I doing wrong here?
So I've been just hard stuck in silver for the past few seasons it seems. I started playing ranked in S3, low bronze there whatever, didn't really play much. In S4 barely made it into silver around 1500s. S5 I made it up to 1710 but dropped a bit and ended around mid 1600s. S6, still haven't broken 1700 and I'm currently around 1650. 

I know the season just started and all, but I've been wondering what have I been doing wrong? I feel like I've tried everything. I've tried to play things I've played the most/am better at like 76, tried to tank with Winst/Rein/DVA, tried to heal with Mercy/Zen, but no matter what nothing seems to work. At most I'll win 2 games then lose 2 more and it'll just do nothing for me. 

I feel like I'm a pretty solid 76, but virtually every time I try to play him the team just locks in 2-3 more DPS and NO ONE wants to switch, so I have to switch to a healer/tank. I'm decent at both roles, just feel like I can make more of an impact as DPS personally. Even then I can play Winston to a good degree but it never seems to matter. Team either refuses to listen or funnels or just gets tilted blaming someone or other. I'm always in voice, though I only talk to make call outs, which no one seems to listen to anyways (i.e. "tracer/reaper behind me (mercy) please help" --> i die b/c no escape route--> "mercy wtf are u doing stop dying"). 

I feel like my gameplay has improved overall (thanks a lot to some of the posts on this subreddit) but I seem to just be stuck here. I know people always say this but I feel like I've tried to do everything (play what I'm best at or fill) and I usually always keep a level head (try to give suggestions to the team in a positive way, stop playing when mega tilted, try not to yell/curse in chat at team even when they're not playing right, etc.) but the BEST that happens is I'll win 2-3 games in a row, then proceed to lose 2-3 more and just undo all my progress completely. 

My so called "friends" (read: ex-friends) all got placed into high silver/low gold so they've just left me behind, giving excuses or just straight up being rude to me for no reason, and it seems some of the nicer people I've met in my games who I do friend are never on when I am, so I'm mostly running solo. If anyone out there wouldn't mind playing with me that'd definitely help but I've gotten used to solo. FYI I play on PC. If anyone is wanting to play, my btag is StardustNova#1567

All in all, just looking for some advice on what to do. I'm trying to get better overall at the game, but I feel as if I've exhausted all my options. Should I just keep playing what I'm better at/enjoy more (76, reaper, winston), or just always fill? All advice and criticism is welcome!

Thanks! post vods
I was in gold for season 2 and 3 and in a very similar position you are in, but have climbed to 3700 in season 5/6 by doing two things. Number 1: main a role. Get really good at 2-3 heroes in either dps, tank, or support. I recommend soldier/tracer, roadhog/zarya, and zen/lucio as those are the best heroes to hard carry in their respective role. I personally main roadhog and zarya as they have more self sustain. The second thing i did was duo with someone who works well with the role you decided. So if you chose to main pharah duoing with a mercy can work really well. For me, i duoed with a rein main and i played Zarya. Play with a purpose, don't just mindlessly do something.
So, some things to take into account.  If you are going to dps in a regular 2,2,2 meta set-up you are most likely going to have to switch around to various dps to counter the enemy team.  Though reaper and soldier are very solid choices for play.  

Being a flex player is great!  But only if you want to be one.  Most people seem to get upset if they are forced into a healing/tanking role.  Sometimes you just have to insta-lock the dps and let the other players work around you.  

I'm a mercy main for full disclosure but I've never played an FPS before overwatch.  Playing a lot of Mercy let me learn a lot of basic shooter-type rules without having to work on more advanced things like tracking (im working on that now).  What I'm trying to say is, learning the bare basics and mastering them will get you far in ranking.  Things like positioning, movement, team and enemy awareness are definitely something to try and master.  Also don't be afraid to practice in the shooting range and in custom games.  Since I never played an FPS before I feel like I have a lot of catching up to do in terms of aiming ability and what not, so I usually spend 10-15 min practicing my aim and tracking before I even enter a game.  I didn't today and my aim was about 15% worse then usual.  

I started at high silver in season 4 and I've managed to climb to high plat/low diamond this season just working on the basics.  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCYbJ6SGufekKMgzt42Dr1RQ  I found their videos very helpful!

Bottom line though, play what you want to play but always aim to be better at them :).

Edit:  I forgot to mention that you can try to search for some people to queue with around your SR.  This subreddit's discord is pretty helpful for that.

> (i.e. "tracer/reaper behind me (mercy) please help" --> i die b/c no escape route--> "mercy wtf are u doing stop dying"). 

Sounds like you are out of position.  If you are mercy you should be near your team and in LoS so you can escape with GA. Having an escape route is your responsibility, not your teammates.  

Flankers in silver tier are usually not that good, if you are regularly getting picked by them then your positioning and/or awareness needs work.

I've been playing since s1 at all ranks (gold to t500), on all roles.

> I feel like I'm a pretty solid 76,


You aren't solid enough at 76 if you are in silver. Even a diamond player could solo carry against a lobby of golds on mechanics. You could be a brain dead vegetable, if your mechanics were there you would not be in silver. 

At this point grinding comp games isn't going to be the most efficient way for you to improve your winrate. You need to deathmatch, aimprac in training room, custom game bot aim practice. I would spend half of your play time doing these things (up to 3 hours at most). You haven't said how long you typically play but you should be doing atleast an hour of this per session. If you can maintain focus longer you can do more. When i played cs:go 600 of my first 1000 hours were in deathmatch/aim practice. 






That is probably not going to be as enjoyable as grinding comp games. If improvement is your goal than you would need to make that sacrifice to be more efficient. You can lessen this amount of time once you've hit the point of diminishing returns which you are no where near currently.   

I'm assuming you are playing on a competitive setup with decent gear aswell. If you aren't then fix that. Also your settings should be reasonable. No 1600 dpi 30 ingame sens.
   
 
  


> but virtually every time I try to play him the team just locks in 2-3 more DPS and NO ONE wants to switch, so I have to switch to a healer/tank. I'm decent at both roles, just feel like I can make more of an impact as DPS personally. Even then I can play Winston to a good degree but it never seems to matter. Team either refuses to listen or funnels or just gets tilted blaming someone or other. I'm always in voice, though I only talk to make call outs, which no one seems to listen to anyways (i.e. "tracer/reaper behind me (mercy) please help" --> i die b/c no escape route--> "mercy wtf are u doing stop dying").


At all ranks dealing with people's inflexible hero picks will be an issue. You never have to switch to anything. You need to judge whether filling for a 2-2-2 or running 3+ dps will give you better odds of winning. You need to do that on a case by case basis. You will become better at judging that through grinding mm.


Don't worry about that until you have a climbed a bit though. At silver I would not playing anything other than dps, and a self sustaining dps at that (soldier,tracer). You can't rely on people having the mechanics or team play to utilize a support or tank pick you might choose. Stop playing anything other than dps immedietly. When your mechanics are there (by there I mean still shitty but better than silver) you will get out. I'd imagine if you shift a lot of your game time to deathmatch that will come quick (prob notice a dif under a week).

I would not worry about com's just yet. The game is complicated enough. Your team wont have the teamplay to benefit from the good coms. People arguing will hurt big time. I'd shut off voice alltogther or group with a friend to talk to. 

When solo Q-ing mm as a support, it is very uncommon to have teammates that will realiably peel for you. Even deep into t500 people won't. If you can't figure out how to stay alive on support while your teammates are doing whatever the hell they feel like, you will not be succesfull on the role. You need to make decisions with the expectation of no help when you get dove or attacked, ect. This shouldnt really concern you much however because you still shouldnt be touching this role until you are atleast mid-diamond.



Also dont be playing all the heroes in the game. Stick to a couple for now atleast. 2 or 3 at most. 


The mechanical grind of DM/Aim practice that I mentioned is the most important thing for you to do. You need to actually commit the time. You need to be focused and not autopilot this. Once youve killed a good 20h of enemies as soldier/tracer/whoever you will be a different player when queing into a real comp game.

Hey there. I'm also a silver player who has been silver for a few seasons but I maintain the rank because I barely play. 

This season I'm committed to climbing and have about a 65-70% winrate so far. What I've learned is that yes you should stick with what you're comfortable on but never to the detriment of your team. It sounds like you enjoying soldier and Winston is a positive because these two are really good! 

I've learned to pick two heroes from each category (that isn't defense) to get proficient with so that I'm happy no matter what happens. I guess this means I support filling, but with someone you're happy with and confident on. I highly believe from streams and different posts here that you can carry from any position be it a clutch transcendence or that ever team killing death blossom. 

You said you feel you're improving and that's what honestly matters. When you improve aim wise and have a solid pool you will do nothing but pull your team up. I know it feels a bit hopeless when you win and lose equally but keep playing and eventually you'll pull ahead. 

Edit: another thing I'm wondering is if you're using team chat? Contrary to what you might think I'm going to say, I am actually not a fan of using it. Not in our ELO anyway, mostly due to bad call outs (so and so is on me! - who is "me" ?) causing confusion or the tilt that we might feel on the down swings in our rank. When I used voice comms it was nothing but distracting and tilting for me. This is conflicting to type because I still maintain that coordination is always a bonus but maybe try without?
> I'm trying to get better overall at the game, but I feel as if I've exhausted all my options. Should I just keep playing what I'm better at/enjoy more (76, reaper, winston), or just always fill?

You can really play whatever you want as long as you are good enough to win with it, that's really it. I suggest looking at 1) what you're best at, and by that I don't necessarily mean the hero you like playing but the hero you can most easily win with 2) your teamcomp (how does your pick synergize with the rest of your team etc) 3) the enemy teamcimp (are they countering you? Can you counter them?) 

And if you think you've exhausted your options at Silver, you really haven't, not even close. First of all your aim is probably very bad and inconsistent, if you just improve your aim you could climb to gold, maybe even plat if you mprove enough. Then you can improve your general gamesense and situational awareness, your hero specific gamesense, your ult economy management, your hero pool, your game knowledge, your positioning, your communication skills etc. etc. There are so many things you can still improve. 

You can do that by really being honest with yourself and by never blaming your teammates. I am not saying never blame them in chat, I am saying never blame them even in your mind. Even if your teammates are bad it doesn't matter since you can't change how they play outside of good shotcalling. So literally the only thing you can do is focus on yourself. For example every time you die find out why you died and how you could have prevented it. Mabye you were overextended, maybe you didn't group with your team, maybe the enemy outaimed you etc.  
Well you climbed from bronze to silver and now you're at a point where you win about 50% of your matches. Sounds like you found the SR range where you belong right now.

Without a VOD, all we can do here is give generic advice. Practice your mechanics, be smart about your positioning and don't feed. You complain a lot about teammates not playing optimal comps or not working with you but that stuff is outside of your range anyway so there's no point in focussing on it.
Im high plat and played in silver once (and low gold). I was able to carry with Winston or Mercy with no problems.

As Winston, just jump a support and kill him. Their team dont focus you down fast enough so you do not even need heals. Just avoid jumping near reaper.

As Mercy it feeled like noone ever notices me. I could fly thought enemys taking maybe 50dmg max. 

But the ultimate carry for me was Pharah. 1. They cant aim well enough, I am used to take cover from highplat mccrees and soilders. So I was basicly invulnerable in silver/gold. and 2. They dont move well and dont take cover well. So it was easy to kill them. (75% winrate on pharah until I hit SR 2500)

However. A master would say the same about my rank. And a topp500 will say the same about master rank.

My advice is don't focus on others. (Imagine its a singleplayer game and only you can change the outcome of the game. Some games are lost no matter what you do. But a lot of games you can have good impact and so win more of them then lose).

Another advice is to take a break. You sound frustrated stucking in silver. A break from 2weeks+ will help with that.
It's probably aim. You should be able to play Soldier with no gamesense and be around gold rank if you can shoot well.  

What's your mouse dpi and sens? Pros are generally around 800dpi and 5sens ingame, my guess is you've got something ridiculously high. Watch a few aim training videos too.  I wouldn't worry about team comp so much. It's truly team deathmatch at your rank. If you need a "hard carry" type of character, practice Soldier/Pharah/Reaper/Zen/ Zarya. 
This. Seriously there's so many people making these " Why can't I climb out of X rank" topics yet they never even bother to post VoDs. 
Dude Ana is a much better main healer and has much better carry potential than Zen. That's not to say he doesn't have that potential but Lucio/zen isn't really required on ladder, and especially not at silver. 

And zen is even higher skill cap than Lucio. With arguably less sustain for a better defensive ult. I like your other suggestions though. 

Ana's problem is that she requires good aim, and her hitscan goes
To
Projectile for sleep dart which requires a different aim mechanic. If you can get that though giving any ulting soldier nano should result in a team kill, at least in silver. 
So much this. I would expect a flanker to be able to kill you if you're in high platinum or diamond, but in silver they really don't know how to flank properly (unless it's a smurf), so if you're getting killed it is your own fault for being in a bad position and not utilizing GA. 
Somewhere around 1200 dpi and like 5.5 in game I believe. It seems to work pretty well for me but still working on it. 

How would a GM smurf stomp a Silver game?
I used to play Dota, and every once in a while a 5k smurf would absolutely clean house in my 3k games, regardless of team composition/griefers etc, just because they were that much better. I'm assuming the same is true for Overwatch (and basically every competitive game) in that a GM smurfing in Silver can just lock Genji/Tracer (or a support if they main support) and reliably carry their Silver team regardless of 5 DPS, throwers and other unfavourable circumstances. What exactly are the skills required to achieve this and how would a Silver player develop these skills as quickly as possible?The most common method is to just play as your main DPS heroes and just hard carry. After all, if the enemy's constantly dead, you basically win.

Non-DPS heroes can carry as well, but probably not as efficiently as a DPS hero.

If you're a DPS player, then just work on improving your ability to secure those kills, and as quickly as possible.
It's not even a GM smurf that can stomp silver. I play morning queue and it will regularly chuck high-plats/low-diamonds into silver games.

I recently had a game where one team was a low-diamond, a high-plat and four bronzes vs six silvers. I stood there as tank and just watched this diamond Pharah tear apart six silvers. Dunno what the four bronzes were doing. They weren't behind my shield that's for sure.

Answering your question, the skills here were; a) pick pharah; b) shoot people while not being shot; c) profit???
I wouldn't say "regardless of griefers etc" but a player ~1k sr over the average sr of the lobby will be able to carry the game easily.

It basically comes down to having much better mechanics, and knowing just how far they can go without getting themselves killed. So, to work on that it would just be practicing aim and focus on staying alive, getting out of fights to heal rather than fighting until you die.
Tracking and positional awareness are the two necessary skills to carry as Tracer. If you can reliably assassinate an enemy's supports by positioning yourself behind them then nailing headshots you're going to stomp in every tier up to Diamond. I play support in platinum and nobody notices or cares if I am repeatedly being killed by a good Genji/Tracer/Sombra. 
Well even if they dont play DPS like lets imagine silver mercy that deals 3man resses, 2 times per match and GM mercy that reliably resses 4-5 people 5 times in a match, thats some heavy win factor for your team, GM Zenyata will kill more people than your DPS and Lucio will be uncatchable making some crazy parkour shenanigans shit while also meleeing people to death, Zarya will have her ult up every team fight with average 75% energy and monkey will just same as Lucio for some reason never die always in your face(if youre sup or squishy). im Low Master/High Diamond and sometimes play with a friend in Gold, and can tell you that people in Gold/Plat A) Have bad aim B) Overextend often C) Have not the best awareness, those factors make them easy targets than at GM level would be impossible to claim. 
Horrible teamwork in silver = the smurf picking a series of 1v1s and winning them all. Not much more to it than that.

Gamesense really does play a huge part. They'll play stupid aggressive, but they'll never die, because they'll always be in just the right spot, they'll know where everyone is, and they'll know who to shoot.
am GM player is used to play much harder games. For example a GM Mercy Main is used to take cover vs really good mccress and widows and also used to escape good monkeys and stuff.

So when this player plays in Silver, he can basicly stand in the open and dont die at all (Even as a Platscrub I can singlehandly carry a silvergame with mercy).

>  how would a Silver player develop these skills as quickly as possible

Play higher ranked games and do well there..
I haven't smurfed in competitive but it happens in quickplay sometimes late at night. 

I just win every single duel when I play dps, no one kills me as healer and I keep everyone alive the whole game, and as tank it's harder to carry with heroes like Rein. 

Hardest carries are sombra/ rein/lucio. Easiest is Pharah (by far), soldier, Genji. 
>What exactly are the skills required to achieve this 

to vague of a quesiton, a gm is just much better than a silver everything. this goes from aim, to awarness, to ult usage, to movement, to positioning, basically eveything.

>how would a Silver player develop these skills as quickly as possible?

grinding, posting vods, watching vods, not  beingt stubborn and always locking dps
The best thing to understand is that first, you shouldn't try to carry.  Getting this idea that you need to "stomp" or "carry" the game by yourself can result in some very destructive behavior such as trying too hard for solo-kills, going in too early or too late (when the fight is already lost), and so forth.

If you want to improve, then review your VODs, watch pros and analyze their plays, and so forth.
GM Smurf would just go dps and hard carry...

Since lower ranks may be a bit bad in positoning, he can just get free picks.
As others have mentioned, good aim is the primary skill required.. however, in order to carry in the face of unfavorable circumstances will also require a lot of experience to know how to avoid being countered. There isn't really a shortcut, just keep playing, learn the maps really well and do focused practice like aim drills, etc.

Stomping silver? A GM would just play whatever hero they're most comfortable with, generally a hitscan dps or flanker, and carry through sheer quantity of eliminations. At silver it would just be a matter of vastly better reaction times, awareness, and aim.

If you're really just asking how to get out of Silver quickly, the answer is "be better at FPS" because basic FPS skills are essentially what keep bronze/silver players worse than the average ranks.

Practice your aim and constantly remind yourself to react to enemies and sounds. Don't walk into enemy Ultimates. Don't ignore that Reaper sitting on high ground above your team. Don't wander around in the open or mindlessly advance on enemies you don't actually need to be closer to.
Just play a dps and carry, you're literally asking how to 'git gud'
I played on my friends bronze/silver account a bit last season. I'm a diamond player so I'm not on the same level as a GM, but I could literally do whatever I wanted and win the game.

One game I spawn camped 3 players with Zenyatta. One game I killed literally everything as Tracer/Genji. One game I played hammer only Rein. 

Differences in mechanical skill are certainly part of why I was able to do that. Some skills that would've stopped me from doing that would be using cover, positioning, appropriate ult usage, and paying attention to me. Keeping track of where all the enemies are located and peeling for your teammates would be a good skill too.
Have a bronze account, brought it up from 900 to 1500 without too much effort on soldier/zen. Am about 26-2700 on main. My aim is not too great but shotcalling does wonders in bronze/silver.

Did lose a few games due to fighting between my team (literally yelling at each other over their hero picks, but whatever it's bronze I guess).
With the most effective heroes generally being Genji, Tracer, Mcree, Soldier, Widow, and Pharah (up to diamond). For the hitscan heroes, aim alone will take you very far, so work on that.
I'm just a low master and when I play in low ranking it doesn't matter what I pick, I can carry with offpick heroes (like ones I never even play in competitive) Its a complete myth that only dps can carry.
you dont even need to play dps, you can literally pick any class. the few games i played in silver i had 90% winrate across all heroes. the only games i lost were with a leaver.
Was this on Lijiang and Oasis?
I'd say even 500 SR is an easy win, every time I play with lower ranked friends it feels like a whole new game.  
you dont even need to headshot, mercys wont notice usually until they are down to 50, lucios cant manage to boop or strafe, anas scope in too much and wont hit sleep ever, zen is free kill anyways
plats basically dont know what positioning is
I've played ana at low ranks and it's kind of funny watching your rein obliterate the entire other team because they cant overpower your heals. With zarya it means 80+ charge all the time, Hanzo it's like 6 dragons a game, it really does not matter. I could play mercy at silver and get quad kills 
wrong, you can pick any hero and still carry on silver. i could pick sym and still stomp them on koth.
Route 66
I agree with this. I was 1400-1700 last season, and whoever had the most Golds on their team always won, without exception. I noticed the Gold players on my team always made my job as a healer easier, and if I was tanking, they knew how to work around me. And if the Gold(s) were on the other team, there was always at least one person on my team that would tilt pretty quickly and look for someone on our team to blame, but nobody even seemed to notice that one or two players on the other team were carrying... Maybe if I had spoken up, our team could have focused that person down, but I felt too new to really talk on comms. 
stop your pedantic bullshit. Plat is around 55th percentile to 85th percentile of the player base. Saying that 85% of players don't know what positioning is negative, doesn't promote conversation, and it makes our community look like elitist garbage bags. 

Get over yourself. 
As most played supports I can say plat know what positioning is, but they forget about it after 1min ingame. 

As mercy I am often: "Ok soilder, go back to high ground" every min. They know it (not all), they just dont think about it while ingame
Damn dude, you're so cool. How can I be like you???
It's perfectly sensible to say that plat is known for poor positioning, because that's the rank at which stuff like "being able to shoot straight" and "realizing you are being shot at" stop being the primary issues for the players. Positioning is one of the dominant errors that platinum players make.

edit: and 85% of players certainly don't understand positioning very well beyond the most basic elements.
as a matter of fact most players in plat dont know what positioning is or how to do it effectively. otherwise they wouldnt be plat. also plat is not a good rank, even diamond is that good anymore. season 6 further inflated ranks.

positioning is the exact reason why they are plat, just face it.
the fact that they forget about it so fast is proof that they dont do it becuase its something you should be doing without thinking too much about it
Hmmm, I don't think I'm getting through to you. A mathematician could say, children no nothing about math! That's why they can't do physics!! When in reality, a child might know a bit about math, some of the basics, the building blocks. They know what it could be used for. They know how to find information on it. 

Make up your mind, do they not know what it is? or do they not know how to do it effectively? Not doing it effectively is reliant on knowing what it is. 

S6 further inflated ranks? What are you basing this off of? I've only seen s3 census data released. 

People are not that cut and dry as well, maybe some people in plat suck at positioning, some are probably really good but aren't so good at ulting or aiming. Once you get to Gm lvl everyone starts evening out their skills. Everyones going to be fairly close to each other. In plat peoples skills are still all over the place. Just because you one clipped some soldier standing in the open in plat once doesn't mean "Plats don't know what positioning is"

Who do you think uses this sub? Just masters+? For this communities sake try to be less of a douchebag
Glad you have access to that blizzard official rank bell curve to be able to make such a claim lmfao. Even though I agree with you a little. Plats don't have  good positioning but it's better than gold which is better than silver, etc etc. No reason for you to shit on plats tho because they're people trying to get better at the game just like everyone else. 
You realize over 50% of the playerbase plays in gold and below, right? Just because you don't interact with them doesn't mean they don't exist.
Totaly true. Well still.. I know about it and am in Plat (well high plat, low dia). I think there is more to know then positioning :) But I know when I play mercy and have a soilder, widow with good positioning I will have a much easier game and the winchance are high only to the fact that I always have a good spot to escape.
They'll often just do it because the pro they watch does it
What? That's statement makes literally no sense. You need to read up on skill acquisition. 
positioning makes up for about 3/4 of the game so no it doesent matter if your aim is sick or your ults are great, they wont win you the game in most cases. positioning is almost the sole reason why people are plat.
overlog.gg is probably the best resource as far as distributions. The only issue I think is you would need to know someone within an SR range if you wanted to see beyond like top 2000(?) or so, but it does match up pretty closely with what Blizzard provided even up to last season (50th percentile is roughly 2300 SR).
ive played for 6 seasons, what used to be good(plat-diamond) is no longer. ive been plat in s1 and it has changed drastically. the overall level dropped since about season 3 start. thats why you also see a lot more people getting to master and gm.
ive played in silver plat and gold, i know how they play. i never said they dont exist, i said their positioning is non existent or straight up random
Again, can you show me the rank bell curve to back up these claims? I mean in my opinion master is where you start to be "good" but that doesn't mean you should shit on people who are trying to learn the game and have fun. Of course plat/diamond is gonna look bad as you get better (assuming you're not hardstuck) but in the first seasons not as many people knew how to play the game.
Even in Silver, it's obvious it's not totally random. Positioning skills start to develop in Gold and are definitely evident in Plat. How often they deviate from optimal positioning is what defines the ranks as far as this skillset goes.
we have no stats really but its fairly obvious if you look at the state of plat and co. blizz will probably never release data again but at least 20% are diamond and probably 30% are plat. 
"We have no stats"


You can't just say you have no proof and start grabbing shit out of your ass again.
dude ive played across all tiers, quality of games dropped. plats are playing like fucking bots.

Which play-style is better ?
I would like to present two screenshots ( of stats ) which represent two different playstyles. One is a very aggresive playstyle - but does more damage, more eliminations etc - but also more deaths. ( https://imgur.com/TvUUgHt )

The other ( https://imgur.com/b4RCxW8 ) is comparatively less aggressive - but also leads to less deaths. 

I am not interested in the stats themselves - but more interested in knowing what the people here think is a better play and which is more preferable. 

TLDR: Is more eliminations but also more deaths better than less eliminations and less deaths  ? 

In Quick Play and the lower competitive ranks there's this crazy internal competition going on in each team. People want gold medals and stop at nothing to get or keep them, so teammates try to outplay each other for those gold medals. If you have the point, you go on a crazy suicide flank to get a few more kills so nobody can take that "Gold Eliminations" medal from you. More gold medals means you're doing better after all, and doing better means more SR, and more SR means climbing faster. But by doing so you overextend, get out of formation, become an easy pick and basically present the point to the enemy team on a silver platter.

&nbsp;

That's not how you climb. You climb by winning games, by playing the objective. Hunting gold medals during a game is not the same as playing the objective. I have played Sombra a lot, and while I usually got 2-4 gold medals with her my winrate with her was 35-40% because I was always going on crazy flanks and trying to solo two enemies at once. Even though I was very aggressive and got a lot of kills, I also died a lot. Basically I was treating the game like Deathmatch, and so are a lot of other people.

&nbsp;

Now I mainly play Mei on attack/ control and Torbjorn on defense, and focus exclusively on the objective. I keep people off the point and make sure that my healers and dying/ retreating DPS' are protected with ice or armor, and chip away at enemy tanks so our mad flankers can take them out more easily. My winrate has skyrocketed to 60-75% and every game I feel like I am actively contributing and participating in a match. I still get gold medals occasionally, but there's no point in actively hunting them.

&nbsp;

So there's your answer:

Play the objective. If you main Junkrat, bomb that objective and then spam bombs and traps on every access point the enemy could conceivably take until that objective *is yours*. If you are on defense, don't let them take it. Don't go off on a mad flank. Eliminations are important, but they don't win you games. As Junkrat, Objective Kills are way more important. Stick to the high ground, lob bombs around corners, and if you die, make sure you die on top of an enemy with a trap under your feet so you take them down with you. And finally, if you must flank, stay close to the objective so you can see it and come back to it if it's under attack asap.
General rule of thumb: Worst thing you can do in Overwatch is dying. So I would say the more cautious approach is the best one.
you could be absolutely crushing with aggressive play having 2x the elims of #2 elims but if you die at a critical time b/c of being overly aggressive the game could be lost on that single death. The best playstyle is a flexible playstyle so that you use whatever playstyle is most effective for each phase of the game / each isolated situation as they arise.
As it's been said a few times already, k/d alone is irrelevant, that isn't what pushes the payload or caps the point. Objective time and objective kills contribute more to winning.
Depends on who you are playing as. With Junkrat it's fine to be aggressive, it gets the most out of his kit. 
It is impossible to say which "style" is better without seeing the two players actually play. Because of this game's *depth*, one hero can be played in various ways and both can be effective. I feel like trying to discover which of these two is *better* is the wrong question.

It's hard to guess at the playstyle of each of the two players you showed. One, obviously is a more balls-to-the-wall shootemup kind of player--and that may work well for him. The other seems to be more reserved--which IMO seems to be a good playstyle for that person (since the stats are based on averages which suggest a consistency of playstyle). But you can't say by stats alone that one is getting better impact kills or that the other is focusing too much on staying alive when there's people need shootin'.

TLDR - This isn't probably exactly the advice you were looking for, but I feel like it's the advice you need:

* A *better question* might be: In your experience, what is the most effective way to play Junkrat on defense and on offense?

cant really tell with just stats, also following a "playstyle" in overwatch is pretty stupid. you should what you think is the right play.
no its not dying, its staggering
Even as Mercy there are times where it is totaly okey to die. 
I am not sure about that. I have played Junkrat a bit more in this new season and one of strategies that I use to cap the second point is generally spam one of the spawn exits. Sometimes even I rip tire people coming just out of the spawn. In both these cases I do end up with quite a few kills but neither is it objective time nor objective kill. 

I know that the general answer I am going to get is that stats dont mean much - if I had presented only 1 data point and asked us to interpret it - it probably is going to be hard. But my question was more along "Which playstyle is better" - the stats just represent two different playstyles. 

One has 31.5 elims with 17 odd deaths. The other has 23.5 elims with 10 deaths.   So 7 more elims with 7 more deaths - but also pretty much all other stats are better - damage, objective kills, solo kills, rip tyre kills etc.. 



I agree with this. If you're playing as Genji/Tracer and you die taking out an enemy support, that's very likely a good trade and puts your team at an advantage (even though it's 5v5). Especially if you've taken out the support and disrupted the defensive formation, or if you have spawn advantage.

If you're playing Reinhardt/Orisa and you get yourself killed taking out the enemy soldier before your team has broken through, you've probably single-handedly caused that push to fail. However, if you've broken in and are in full teamfight mode, where your team is much less able to make use of a directional shield, and you Rein charge a priority target (e.g. damage-boosted Bastion, enemy main tank, solo healer, DVa bomb) off the map, that can be a pretty helpful play, as you've likely traded your life for multiple enemy lives (assuming your teammates follow up) or saving multiple teammate lives (by taking out a team-shredding hazard).

That said, at lower ranks, you almost always are better off dying less. Doesn't mean the ideal number of times to die is zero for all heroes. But low-to-mid-rank players are overwhelmingly more likely to be playing overly risky than overly safe.
If you don't die, you can't stagger your team.
Sure 'don't die' is quite obviously preferable but stepping out of theoryland, of course it's going to happen. Your team getting staggered is infinitely worse than dying while making sure you don't stagger. So getting staggered IS most definitely worse than dying.

Also you have to consider what lengths you'll go to, in order to not die. Are you going to sit in spawn the whole match, guaranteeing your survival? No of course not, there's objectives you need to win, and you have to take on some amount of risk in order to achieve them. The knack then is in balancing that risk, managing to overwhelm the enemy while achieving your goal, and yep ideally not dying.

Lastly, sometimes a self-sacrifice can actually be required. In some scenarios keeping a key teammate alive by drawing fire / bodyblocking, or simply keeping the objective contested, is more important in working towards the win than your own survival. Yes yes you should have all done things properly in the first place to not get into those bad situations, but while 'shoulda coulda' may provide useful insight to take forward to future matches, it is 0% useful on the live battlefield itself. On the live battlefield you have to roll with the punches and do whatever it takes to seal the win.
if your team dies and you run away you will stagger eventually. dying is the better option so to say.
Dying *at the same time as your team* is preferable to dying 5 seconds later that causes staggering. If you can get away and run back towards spawn, to your team, then you're not staggering. Even if you just run and hide and approach from another angle when your team pushes, you're not staggering. 

Surviving is preferable to dying every time except if you're just feeding enemy ult. Like a self heal hero or a tank that can take hits while they keep trying to poke while waiting on their team to regroup. That kind of behavior is dangerous for more than just providing ult charge. The risk is too great to chance death and create a staggered team.

So, providing you're not trying to poke the enemy and providing them ult charge, surviving always trumps dying. *Always.*

Trying to pick up Genji, looking for advice.
After a few seasons of being a Support/Tank player, I decided I wanted to pick up some DPS. I chose (surprise!) Genji, I had been playing him in QP and Deathmatch and doing fine. Today I played him in comp for the first time, I didn't do terrible, silver elims, but I know I could do so much better, any tips or advice would be apperciated. I think I have the basics down, I'm not really sure where I'm lacking but I know I can do better. I'm in high Plat, I, unfortunately, didn't record the game so general advice would be appreciated.First of all his attacks aren't worth much if you don't hit headshots, unless you're finishing off a weakened player. Get used to holding it at head height and strafing right and left. You should pretty much always be throwing stars.  

Learn when to use primary and secondary fire.  Primary is great at long and mid range, secondary is really useful close up against tanks especially with a melee thrown in here and there. A few exceptions to that, namely if you sneak up on a widow use primary to land all headshots really easy then Melee/dash through. That's a great combo if you're close up in an enemy, stars->melee->dash will kill a lot of players if your aim is good. Be ready to turn and deflect after in case you miss.

Learn how to manage your cooldowns, his whole strength is in his abilities. Genji can get in and out of fights really easy so don't just sit there in a group of enemies jumping around trying to dodge if you have no abilities ready, run. Brings up another good point, don't just spam jump that's a rookie move. One jump, pause, double jump just before you hit the ground. Most genjis don't do this so it throws people's aim off. 

You shouldn't really expect any healing from your team, if you get it it's a bonus. Learn where health packs are and don't be afraid to disengage to go heal, usually you'll get ignored and can come back and flank. 

When pushing a choke use dash to get behind and finish off low health enemies, then dash back out. Getting kills resets your dash and chaining that is REALLY powerful, it does more damage than you think. 

Start thinking more vertically, his wall climb allows him to get around a lot of chokes to flank and it's very useful when you run away. Map awareness is key, you should always have an escape route. I like to plan attack paths and rotate them. For example on ilios with the house go ceiling hole-> out the back, grab health, climb on roof again, attack from side, back up top. Basically you want to be going in and out of combat and getting them to turn around so your team can push up front. 

A few enemies to look out for: 

Tracer can be hard to hit but your dash takes like 2/3rds of her health so hit her with that if you see her low.

Deflecting a widow for a headshot is fun but hard, better to sneak up unless your defending the cap point. 

If they have sym or Winston keep your distance, by far the most annoying to play against. If sym does get close use it to hit easy headshot instead of running. Even dashing away probably won't save you. In comp it's usually better to just switch than play these two. 

Always kill torb before the turret. 

Tanks are great for farming ult, especially those with big head hit boxes like road and dva but it's unlikely you'll kill most tanks without backup. 

Your main job is to get behind and kill healers, everything else is secondary. 

I have about 150 hours on genji, feel free to ask questions!
Some of this might be redundant with what others have said:

**I. Mechanics**

The three main mechanical skills that differentiate a good Genji from a poor or average one are:

a. *Use of Genji's mobility*

It took me 40+ hours on Genji before I finally started incorporating his mobility into every single combat situation. Wall climbing and double jumping not only allows you to traverse terrain, it also allows for extreme disorientation of the enemy and a lot of 'peeking' options to keep you from taking damage. So my first tip would be to make wall climbing and double jumping a muscle memory thing, and try to do it as often as possible. I don;t know if you're on PC or console, but if you're a console player it is vital to remap jump to one of your triggers, because you really should be using it as often or more so than your primary fire.

b. *Shuriken accuracy*

One of the things about Genji that keeps him balanced in lieu of being the most mobile & elusive hero in the game is his frankly pathetic primary fire. I think the average accuracy with Genji's shuriken is less than 30%, which means that players hit one or less of his three shurikens every time he throws them. Not only are they tough to land because of the travel time, they do a very small amount of damage compared to other heroes' primary fire. It is absolutely vital to practice landing your shuriken consistently if you are going to do any reliable damage. Headshots are especially important. If you can land all three shuriken on the head of a 200HP hero, you can kill them with a swift strike. So keep focusing on being as accurate as possible with his shuriken, it will really separate you from the bad Genji players if you can do this. Someone else mentioned knowing when to use primary vs. alt-fire. Basically, use alt-fire when you're at very close range. The shuriken travel much faster and your rate of fire goes up too. It's a fantastic way to deplete a tank's health pool. If you can do an alt-fire right up against someone's face, you can immediately swift strike for an instant kill on anyone 200HP or under.

c. *Cooldown management*

Genji lives or dies based on whether you have Swift Strike and Deflect available when you need them. If you're too aggressive with these abilities, you will find yourself in bad situations without an escape (swift strike) or protection (deflect). If you're too cautious, though, you will not be doing much damage to the enemy and will not be helping your team. Genji is the only hero, to my knowledge, with an ability that resets upon getting an elimination. Even if you don't land the killing blow, Swift Strike resets when you get an elim, allowing for dash chains. This is a fantastic mechanic for continuing an attack or leaving after going behind enemy lines to kill someone, and encourages you to do damage to as many targets as you can, and be involved in every teamfight, because your teammates getting you eliminations will reset your dash and give you incredible sustain.

Deflect is another beast. If you pop it too early, you can be taken out very easily if you're not able to leave a conflict. The most consistent way I die is by having my deflect baited, and then the enemy McCree stunning me and killing me. McCree is a very formidable counter to Genji in this regard, so it's doubly true to hold onto your deflect as long as possible when facing him. So in general, try to use your mobility (double jump & wall climb) to dodge enemy fire & abilities, and use deflect for emergencies or even aggressively. Part of the fun with Deflect is baiting your enemies' fire and killing them with it. So if you can surprise them around a doorway, jump in between them and a teammate of yours, or otherwise just force them to shoot you, you can control the terms by which you use deflect and use it aggressively. Good Genji players will be able to take what seems like a defensive move and use it to deal out more damage.

**II. Positioning & Playstyle**

The high ground is very easily accessible to Genji because of his passive. Use it. There's really no reason to not be above your enemies as often as possible--it makes it more difficult for many heroes to hit you, and can be very disorienting. It also allows you to sneak around. Now, the high ground is also where you'll find snipers. Respect them, and watch out for them, but don't fear them. Genji is actually a great counter to snipers. You can reflect their shots and quickly close the distance with Swift Strike. Snipers usually stay relatively still while trying to aim at you, too, which makes them easier to land shuriken on. However, it's best not to approach directly. While it's a lot of fun to deflect a Widow's shot back into her face or send three shuriken into Hanzo's stupid head and immediately Swift Strike through him, approaching them head on gives them windows of opportunity that good snipers will use to one-shot you. Find out where they are and sneak up to them; surprise them, and burst them down quickly.

Speaking of sneaking up on people, Genji is a flanker. More than just using high ground to put yourself at an advantage, use all aspects of the map that let you sneak around undetected. Remember, you're a fucking ninja. Your primary targets are healers and snipers. Ignore the tanks and anyone with more than 200HP. Also, try not to get in fights with the enemy offense heroes. Even if you can beat them, there's usually too much risk involved, whereas attacking a Zenyatta from the back or a Widow from the side is an easy kill. One crucial component of flanking is timing it correctly. Your goal is simply to kill one enemy before a teamfight so it's 6v5 in your favor. You have to survive for this to happen, or else it's a 5v5, and you won't survive if you go in for the kill too early. Wait for your team to be pressuring the enemy before you go in. This way, if the enemy turns around to deal with you, your team can just push in and use that distraction to take someone out on their end. If the enemy team doesn't turn around to deal with you, that means you get a free kill unless you fuck up.

In situations where your team is having a really hard time breaking through a choke, Genji can use his mobility to sneak into enemy territory and start securing the objective. Tracers do this a lot too. When the enemy hears that you're there, they'll scramble, and you need to gtfo. Hopefully your team can use this to their advantage and push through the choke. As soon as they do, you can start going after squishies to up the chaos factor. It's important to have realistic expectations, however. You can't solo Torb or Symmetra defenses on your own--those are team efforts unless you're Sombra or Pharah. So don't go suiciding in all the time thinking you can take care of these by yourself. 

**III. Ulting**

Genji's ult is extremely powerful, but very disorienting to use. It's vital to know where your enemies are and have a plan for reaching them, & chaining them, before you go in, otherwise you'll fail to kill someone, not have your dash available, get focused, and die. The same rule I mentioned before, about not going in until your team puts pressure on the enemy, is crucial here as well. Use all the things from before (high ground, flanking, going for healers and snipers first, eliminations resetting your dash) to set yourself up, and have a kill list in your head. You'll get a free Dash upon activating the ult to get you to your first target; which really speaks to how far above or behind them you should be before ulting. After killing that target, dash to the next, rinse and repeat until they're dead or you need to gtfo. 

Some tips: Don't ult if the enemy Zen or Lucio has ult, unless your goal is to get them to pop it. As soon as they hear you scream at them in Japanese, they'll pop their ult, guaranteed, and you will be able to kill *no one*. They will consider it a great trade. On the other hand, if they pop their ult and don't know you're lurking above or behind them, you can ult right as their shield/healing expires, and mow them all down. Chances are they will have grouped up during the ult as well. Obviously, comboing with a Zarya is really ideal, so if you have one, make sure you're communicating to each other when your ults are ready. Also, try to know where everyone on the enemy team is before you ult, regardless of if you're targeting them or not. If you see five and go in, and that sixth is a Widow way in the back...

**IV. Random stuff.**

- Winston, Symmetra, and Mei are all Genji counters, but simply out positioning them will make them simple annoyances. Remember not to intrinsically fear them, but to look for openings and just be aware of where they are and the circumstances in which each of you might be able to engage the other from. If they can engage you and kill you, you're out of position; if they can't, you're doing well. Even so, think about switching if it's going to take too much effort playing around these heroes. If you're too concerned about staying alive to do your job (kill snipers & supports), then they've beaten you by simply zoning you out. 

That's all I can think of at the moment. GLHF!
 
The biggest thing that helped me was playing safer. While Genji is a great flanker and flanking their snipers and other high dmg dealers is great, playing with your team is often better. Get high ground use your movements and poke the enemy team. A good strategy is to leap down into the middle of the choke and deflect as much dmg as possible before dashing away. Once you or your team poke an enemy to low health dash onto them and then dash to a new target or deflect then dash out. In a team, fights use your double jump often to make yourself hard to hit and wall climbing is a surprisingly good way to escape. While I' am a genji one trick I am no means a genji god or pro. If you really want to get better watch shadder2k and PRACTICE.
Something, some people forget. 3 imo most important things. Gamesense. Be patient as hell. Combos. 

People learned how to play against him. In the earlyer state of the game.. People were just afraid. Nowadays nearly every heroe sometimes tries to face you. So for me it was pretty difficult because playing aggressive was so easy. And then i had to switch it to really wait until i can go in.. And if i CAN be aggressive. 
People would now say, this is something to learn if you get better.. But the thing is, if you dont look out for it now, you can pick up bad habits. 

Combos, really easy. 
-Lmb-dash(on target position) - melee-maybe rmb. 
-Rmb-melee. 
Somewhat basic combos.. Most used. 

Gamesense. This is something everyone has to develop. Its also about predicting people.. A tip from me. BE AS UNPREDICTIBLE AS POSSIBLE. 
Switch things up. Dont use the combo 3000times against the same dude. Switch things up. Fake things. 
Dont be the 101genji that deflects way too early and uses dash right after it ends. Everyone will give you a headshot or a sleepdart. 
Learn how people react. And go after that. You can sometimes find mccree's that ALWAYS flashband while they suddenly make a step forward or backwards. And in the end of the round they ask themself how they lost every 1v1...
Its especially important to know WHEN to go in. 
Thats where patience comes in. 
You really have to take a look at the enemys.. And of what your team does. You go in too early or too late.


Before i forget. Especially in terms of WHEN to engage etc. I recommend watching pro or high tier plays and look close. 
Watch the pros and copy their positioning.
You’re probably gonna need healing.
Only advice I can give? Be ready to switch if they have a good Winston. So many lost games because of stubborn Ganjos who kept getting shat on by the monkey man.
Question about dragonblade: 

A: Dash up into air then dragonblade and dash down to target (200hp)

OR

B: Dash into target (200hp), dragonblade, swing once and dash to kill.
I would try to avoid activating dragonblade anywhere that your visible, its way to obvious and you'll get focused before you can do much damage. So definitely not the first. I like to dash through, run around a corner and hide then activate, dash back through and then start swinging. If you push with your team they should get some shots into the back while the enemy turn after the first dash, then when you're back at the front you have active dragonblade and your team there with you plus the enemy has taken several hits. Alternatively sneak around and activate dragon blade without being noticed, attack from behind until they notice you then dash through. Option b you listed is good when there's only 1 enemy to fight and you happen to have popped it. Make sure when dragon blading to utilize the dash reset every kill, it will let you get up close to the next target. 

Remember that you can't dash or reflect while it's activating, and the activation time is longer than it seems so definitely be in a safe place unless its OT
Also a easy comb for the most mercy's you wanna catch.. Dash to em. Make it visible(only to her if possible). She will fly away. No doupt. Use dragonblade for reset. Go after her and kill her. But for this you have to somewhat know where the enemys are and where she COULD fly to.. If there is a pharra it was probably wasted. 
In many cultural stories, dragons exhibit features of other animals, like the head of elephants, claws of lions and beaks of predatory birds. Their body colors are widely different – red, blue, green, gold, but usually earth tones. In some cultures, the colors have specific meanings.
great bot

I'm not improving (Rant + Plea for help)
My rank is 2200.

I've been playing this game since mid S5 and Counter-Strike for well over a year and after practicing my aim every day for at a bare minimum thirty minutes for a few months, my aim has had extremely minimal improvement. My routine is generally to go into CSGO, practice on aim training maps for 10 minutes. Then I try to headshot bots as McCree for 10 minutes, then I 1v1 my friend for 10 minutes. Then I'll usually play QP after and then I'll comp.

My sensitivity is 1.65 in game 1600 DPI. Mouse acceleration is off.

My friend has an insanely high sensitivity (360 per inch whereas I do a 180 every full swipe of my 45cm mousepad)  and doesn't ever practice but his aim is consistent and on point. He beats me in every game we play together by miles.

This is very frustrating and Sam's talent feels like a slap in the face. 

Honestly I feel like I am just not cut out for video games. I've been total dog shit at any that I've played. I've gotten better as I've gotten older but i can't say the same for my aim. I hear people talking about how anyone can become a pro if they try hard enough by working hard, easy as lifting weights. I'm that fat kid in a junior high PE class who works out for an hour every day in hopes of becoming a football athlete and still can't lift a fucking brick.

On top of all this, my aim is actually worse than normal for the past week, which I didn't realize was  possible. I literally cannot play DPS in fucking low-mid Gold games. I've been doing well in competitive as support and tank but I can't even play Reaper who was my main a week ago. Also I've never been able to play Pharah as effectively as I could Soldier in TF2.

Please help me!! I know my positioning, awareness and game sense need work as well but I think this is what's holding me back the most. (No, I don't have a VOD)

Also side note if an enemy is behind me, I usually don't hear them until they start shooting. I don't hear their footsteps. This doesn't apply to 1v1's. (I used this very effectively against high Silver players as Reaper to gut their back line and tanks, hell I could even teleport aggressively sometimes and not get punished.)


Edit: here's a playlist of old videos but I've corrected many of the mistakes I make since then.

https://m.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL9TkySb4FYbiB4YWx5HvgWo_b0uezToYBI would skip the 10 min csgo and just go in a ow dm 
You're actually doing okay for your first-ish season of competitive. 23xx is the median SR you're just barely below average which is pretty nice for being fresh blood. 

Reaper is not a all-situation hero like soldier or tracer. He is a niche pick. He was designed to do one thing and he is the best at doing it - close quarters tank busting. If the enemy doesnt have tanks or is running 1 tank, 5 squishies, reaper will not be doing the maximum damage he can. If fights are happening in big open spaces, that's beyond reaper's effective range. That could explain why you feel your reaper is some times good, some times bad. 

Since youre just starting out, you need to learn the basics of your hero and how they're designed to be played so that you can get the maximum effect out of them. Reaper relies on closer quarters, and meaty targets. Hide around corners to catch people in your effective range. Switch if they have snipers and pharah. Reaper does nothing against them. Against soldier, reaper has to play smart. Solider will win out at medium range. Reaper will win at close range but his movement is slow and his teleport is loud. 

Reaper also has life drain which comes from how much damage he can do. He gains 20% of the damage he deals as health to sustain himself. So if you're dueling squishy targets, you're not getting any heals. If you shoot tanks, you basically live forever. 

Also, adjust your sounds, turn down in-game music, etc so that you can hear footsteps. Footsteps are very important in this game. 
Aim comes with practice, but it's all muscle memory most of the time. I would say you should skip CS:GO as the sensitivity might be different for you in that game since the sensitivity CSGO and OW isn't necessarily 1:1. As for positioning, awareness, and gamesense. We really do need a vod in order to help you with those.
1. probably too much aim training and too low sense
2. you dont have to play aim intensive heroes, ranked has enough dps players
3. rather than only talking about aim, your positioning is much more important
3. post a vod
Your sens could be a bit too low. When you lower the sens in Overwatch, you trade accuracy for agility. OW is is a very fast game. If your sens is too low, you won't be able to turn around quick enough and you won't be able to track fast moving targets. Long story short: Your aim becomes "lazy". A general rule of thumb: If you have to lift your mouse more than one time to do a 360, you should increase your sens. 
Ok, first off I'd just like to say thank you for not blaming the game / your team. 

Second, death match is a great mode for warming up - I've found it much more helpful than bots. I don't see CS as being particularly useful - the best way to improve at Overwatch is to play Overwatch.

You mention not having one, but if you really want helpful, detailed criticism and not just general platitudes you need to record yourself and post VOD's.

As for sound - use headphones, turn on Atmos, and disable the music.
I´m a bad aimer. 

Yet I still beat many People who got 20% more accuracy.

Why? Because I don´t care. I know I can´t aim. I wasn´t able to aim 20 years ago. I wasn´t 10 years ago and It won´t change in another 5 years. But I have good situational awareness. I can anticipate what my enemies will do and I know what they can do with the skills their character has.

So instead of focusing to get better in aiming I am actually playing the game evolving the skills I am good at and outplay the mechanical good Players with superior awareness and knowledge.

Works well for me. And on the bright side those are skills you don´t lose as much as you get older. The mechanical skills decrease much worse.
I call Reaper my main because I insta lock him on control. Otherwise it's Soldier or I fill.

First sentence:

I do practice...

Regarding CSGO:

O

I put in a sensitivity calculator but I'll have to check it next time I'm on.

Gamesense:

Shadowplay stopped working since S5 ended. This is some S5 gameplay.

https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL9TkySb4FYbiB4YWx5HvgWo_b0uezToYB
I watched the soldier on horizon video, few small things to say.


1. You need to be paying more attention to the killfeed in the corner, there are a lot of times your entire team is dead but you're still pushing in. You do not want to take a fight when you're down 1 more person than they have, especially when they have the spawn advantage.

2. your positioning when you reset is not far enough away, however they let you get away with it, a better team would push in on you and stagger your spawn.

3. often during the pushes you go in separately from your team

4. You sit behind shields a little too religiously, soldier can utilize highground very effectively - even if there isn't a shield there to protect him.


Regarding your aim, it doesn't seem like you actually use your whole mousepad if it is 45 cm, there's many times in the vod that I can see you deliberately picking up your mouse after doing something like a 30 degree turn, multiple times in a row.
Additionally, you seem to be dragging behind people, leading me to think you have too low of sensitivity. Try raising it up a bit, maybe try using something like the "PSA method" to find a new sensitivity.

Also, it's very easy to lose track of a crosshair that's a white dot, you might want to consider changing the color. But that's completely just a preference of mine.

Anyone else got inflated SR after placements?
Hi guys. 

So i just played placements on my main, last season i ended 3584 with a season high of 3609. My career high is 3694. After my placements i placed in 3854, which is more than 150 SR higher than i have ever been before on this account across all seasons. This just seems pretty odd to me to be honest, i won 6/10 placements but i was tired and mostly just half afk'd the wins as lucio while listening to a podcast, so my performance wasn't exceptional or anything. Anyone experience anything like this?It's not based on S5 sr, its based on mmr. Meaning if you got stuck last season due to what ever reason but kept performing well then your mmr went up and you got placed where you should actually be at.
I did. My alt in S5 was high gold for pretty much the whole season, with a little tiny jump into plat right at the end (maybe 20 SR into plat). I lost 6/10 placements and ended up around 2700 for S6 - which is 200 SR higher than my S5 high. Found it a little strange but hey, I figure I'll drop back down to my normal ranking soon enough.
I believe they said that this season doesn't include all your previous season fuckups and supposedly your own performance is much more heavily weighed.
I played fill every game on my main 3-7 and placed 500 above where I ended, yet I played dps on my alt every game and went 7-3 and placed 100 below where I ended.  Weird thing is when I played dps and won most games I had multiple golds and great accuracy every game. 
Well I peaked at 3534 last season and placed 3616 this season going 7-2-1.
Similar story. My career high was 29xx and my s5 end was 27xx. I consistent had a lot of masters in my placement games and I did okay. I went 5W-4L-1T in my placements and got placed in 32xx, 500sr above my season end. 
For me i was silver last season, and played against low plat and high gold people (played with real life friends who were at that rank). Won 7 lost 3, played support most of the time as a Ana main, after my placements I got 10 more SR than my season 5 highest (i started playing at season 5). Now everyone is getting so much more sr making me wonder if i should still play healer
My alt account went 2 wins, 7 losses, 1 draw and placed 168 points above where I ended last season. That's 3301 to 3469 from a 20% win rate. 
I went 2-8 (that's 2 wins, 8 losses) in my placements and went from 2555 to 2557 SR. That's +2 SR from playing extremely shitty during my placements.

Maybe Blizzard went far too overboard when they got rid of the deflated SR thing where Blizzard purposely placed people lower so that they could "feel good" while climbing back up.
I finished last season 2297 and I got placed 2760 this season... still don't know how it happened.
I finished last season with ~2500 and got boosted (after six wins and four losses, but a ton of gold medals cuz Soldier main) to high 2600s
They said they would stop artificially lowering your placement SR (which they used to do) this season.
I went 3-7 on my placements, didn't do particularly well, and I ended up only 9 points lower than my end-of-last-season SR. If anything, my experience suggests that the placement algorithm was relying very heavily on stats from the previous season.
Same dude. Got around 3600 last season and decayed to 3000 because I went three weeks into vacation. Made my placements yesterday with 4 wins and 6 losses and got 3793. I though my rank was already inflated last season. >.>
I'm curious, how many games did you play last season? 
Makes sense i had 3.800ish season 5, then put game on hold for 2 months and stagnated to 3k, played placements 3/7 and still ended up at 3.680
46 games
My thinking is that in the past, blizzard placed you lower than you should have been - say true rating minus a couple hundred. Since you didn't play a large amount of games, it's possible you just never made it up to your "true rating". You sr wasn't really inflated, it just wasn't artificially lowered. 

Aim help based on this clip
I posted recently about my aim going completely to shit for some unknown reason. I've since reworked my whole aiming setup from dual zone to linear ramp, but it still feels garbage.

I recorded a short VOD of Tracer with these settings:

>Linear ramp / 60/30 / 100 AA / 70 AAW / 70 AS / 30 AEI

You can see I battle to move the reticle to the target quickly and consistently, causing me to average 32% accuracy in this match. I just don't know what to change anymore.

Based on [this clip](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zLuK4ZU9mcs) of me fumbling through Anubis, what would you suggest I adjust to get my aim back on track?

It didn't look to bad in my opinion. I would suggest changing reticle to green so you can track easier. I would also suggest making sensitivity for horizontal and vertical the same. Oh also if you feel it's too slow to aim at a target you could always turn aim smoothing down more. My sensitivity is linear ramp 5|5 0 aim smoothing btw. 
Flair as console so that other console players could see it and help you out
Thanks! I usually average about 10% higher with my Tracer aim so there's definitely room for improvement with linear. I'll try the green out though, set it to yellow once and never tried changing. Matching horizontal and vertical makes it insanely hard for me to land headshots, is it really night and day having them the same value?
Done, thanks.
For me it helped improve my aim a lot on hitscan like mccree. I main tracer as well and it just made it feel less jerky when tracking since the sensitivity was the same. I also changed my reticle to the dot with spread turned on in advanced settings. What was honestly the biggest difference for me improving my aim was turning aim smoothing off. I initially did it for widow and haven't gone back since. But honestly accuracy just requires muscle memory and practice. Especially with linear ramp. Your accuracy will probably improve after you get used to linear ramp 
That's new to me, I've always thought turning spread off was basically mandatory. Might actually be a good combo with the dot now that you mention it (which I find hard to track on its own). Did you kill smoothing completely for Tracer? I've got almost 100 hours on her with dual zone and full smoothing so this is uncharted territory :D
My settings for everyone is linear ramp 5|5 0 aim smoothing 100 aim assist. The only one it's different for is widow who is 0 aim smoothing 70 scoped sensitivity. I ended up turning off aim smoothing bc I wanted to improve my widow and while in a game with 3 other ppl on smurfs they all told me that turning off aim smoothing would help my aim in general as it's much faster. It did take a day or two to get used too. But it feels much faster than and better for me personally. I won't lie, I didn't enjoy getting used to it at first. And I really had to turn down my sensitivity. It just makes it really easy to turn quickly and it feels smooth once you find the correct sensitivity 

Where to find a team?
I don't want to solo queue ranked, but don't know where to find people to consistently team up with and practice together. Do you already have to have five other friends to make this happen?You might try [OverwatchLFT](https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchLFT/).
Also /r/overwatchlfg or the OWU discord channel (linked on the right). There are other discord channels out there as well. I think some OW youtube channels have discord channels that help you find others. I know Your Overwatch does but I haven't been in there in a while and I hear it's kind of fading, but I really don't know.

If your aim w/ Ana is not on point, switch? Or fight through it until it is?
I am a Diamond Ana main on PC. My accuracy scoped and unscoped both tend to be around 75% on less mobile teams, and 70% in mobile teams. My sleep dart accuracy just depends on the day.

However, sometimes I'll find myself playing Ana and I can't hit anything. 

I recently had a Hanzo who would keep overextending, and start wall running up and down walls to avoid being hit. And, though I generally don't have problems even healing an Ulting Genji or a Blinking Tracer, I couldn't hit this cracked out Hanzo for the life of me.

This inaccuracy extended to the rest of my team for that match, and even though we won by a small margin, I ended up wondering if I should've just switched to Mercy. My accuracy dropped to around 58% during that match.

Matches like this have been happening to me more frequently lately, and I've been starting to think twice about picking Ana (my main, who I never used to hesitate when picking). 

Any advice on this?

Is it ok to have 3 in 10 matches where my team wonders if I even have my cross-hair enabled? Or should I be working harder to be more consistent?

Thank you in advance for any and all help! :)

P.S. I do want to climb to Master eventually, but unfortunately, because of life, I tend to play a more casual amount of hours a week.> I recently had a Hanzo who would keep overextending, and start wall running up and down walls to avoid being hit. And, though I generally don't have problems even healing an Ulting Genji or a Blinking Tracer, I couldn't hit this cracked out Hanzo for the life of me.

It happens.

> Matches like this have been happening to me more frequently lately, and I've been starting to think twice about picking Ana (my main, who I never used to hesitate when picking).

If you've climbed to Diamond using Ana as your main, then you're a diamond Ana.  If you weren't, you would have fallen back to Plat.  She is likely your best character, anything else you pick will probably cause you to play worse.

> Is it ok to have 3 in 10 matches where my team wonders if I even have my cross-hair enabled?

Take advice and criticism from your teammates with a grain of salt.  In my experience, the nonsensical raging and finger-pointing in Silver persists in Diamond as well.  (I'd like to say it's less in Masters, but that's often not the case, you'll need learn to separate out the helpful criticism from the worthless)

> Or should I be working harder to be more consistent?

Yes, you should always strive to play better.  If you meant more along the lines of "should I switch instead", then see my comment above.

Often times, people put an inordinate amount of blame on accuracy as it's one of the easiest metrics to measure (i.e. you miss or you don't) for their losses.  Some of the things you mentioned like:

> My sleep dart accuracy just depends on the day.

lead me to believe you should be focusing on other gaps in your play like ability usage.  I.e. you should never be throwing a sleep dart unless it's a guaranteed hit, otherwise keep using your primary.

If you just wanted a pep talk, then yes, keep playing Ana and improving.  For anything more concrete, you'll need to post a VOD.
I'm the same way. I'll have days where I'm on point with my aim and sleep dart usage, and I'll have off days. Usually on my off days I'll just go play Mercy or something, as I know I'm better off healing my team over trying to hit shots I can't land. 


Everyone has bad and good days, it isn't just you!
Everyone who plays aim dependent heroes have bad days. I play a lot of widow with my ana. Some days I'm just popping off heads shots and other days I can't bodyshot a point blank reinhardt. The key is to play enough to make your shots more consistent. 

If I feel like Im having a bad day, I just dont play comp. Or if Im missing shots mid match and in a healer role like ana, I switch to mercy or zen. 
I notice as Ana that most of my "off" games tend to be because of ADAD strafe spammers on my team. My rule is 2-3 near-miss shots before giving up on hitting a teammate who is constantly spazzing out. The good thing is most people know at this point to stand still briefly for guaranteed Ana heals, so it's rarely an issue anymore.

As far as switching to Mercy, if you're anything like me you'll just hate it and get pissed at the passive playstyle which will cause you to tank performance and/or lose interest very quickly. 

If you don't already do so, try to expand your hero pool to include at least one of each role. Don't feel obligated to always be "the healer" (and trust me I know how hard that can be sometimes).
As a widow main and Ana flex, on the days I feels I have wonky aim, I'll go 2 games and if it doesn't go away or I warm up I'll head into the training range to try and work it out real quick like another warm up. If after that the problem persists then I'll tend to flex away and consider it a bad aim day. Honestly, most of the time I can actually work it out. I'd say 20-25% of the time I'll take the bad day and bench my aim heavy heroes.
Usually inconsistency in aim is due to poor warming up. Look up some warming up guides, I also main ana and they help a lot to keep decent aim.
sounds like a clear case of not quick scoping or not scoping at all for medium distances
(Disclaimer: Im in high silver so take it with a grain of salt) I mostly main off-healers (Zen and Lucio) and the only time I ever ask an ana to switch is if I have gold healing. Usually that means the ana isnt focusing enough on healing or isn't hitting their shots, in which case a mercy would be better, but thats the criterion i use. 
>This inaccuracy extended to the rest of my team for that match, and even though we won by a small margin, I ended up wondering if I should've just switched to Mercy. My accuracy dropped to around 58% during that match.

So what would have changed? Hanjo overextends and you still cannot heal him. Zenyatta might have been an Option here. But that´s about it. 

If you want to change things, change them to fit the good Players of your Team not the bad Players. And that can even mean Switch to Orisa to Support your good Bastion instead of going Winston to Support your bad Tracer.


For the part of severall matches: It narrows down to: Do you enjoy Ana and Play her alot? Yes then Keep doing so MMR will settle you at a spot where you are of Impact.
Thanks for the useful comment. As for the pep talk, it's appreciated, but I'd rather not waste people's time if that was my motive for posting. There's enough pity posts on this sub.

I definitely agree with your points. I haven't stopped to consider my ability usage as much as I should. I used to hit most of my darts, but I've been slacking on that. That may be able to compensate whenever my aim goes down.

When I says I'm an Ana main, I mean I mainly play her/I'm most comfortable with her. But I'm mostly a flex player. I'm actually comfortable playing the majority of the roster, and only ever get to play Ana in like 40% of my matches. But I do have my highest win rates with her across all my seasons. 

Good point in mentioning to evaluate people's criticism, but don't take it to heart. However, it is hard to really know if you are playing well or not without criticism. I'll take your advice and post a VOD in the near future. 
Good point.

I wonder if there is a correlation between rank and perceived "off-days". 
Ok, so your advice would be to switch for the remained of the match, and get a grip on Ana again in QP or something? Rather than trying to force it.
Oh I don't mind Mercy, I think she's fun to play. I just prefer Ana over any other support. 

I am comfortable playing the majority of the roster. Im actually a flex player for most of my matches, but whenever a healer position is open, Ana is usually my first choice (depending on our comp and the map). 

However you make a good point in that, if I'm having trouble healing, I should let my team know so they can accommodate their movements a little. They'd probably prefer that over having to take my place as a support :P
I feel like I should post my tips for warming up as a widow main:

Create a private arcade match with 6 very-hard ana bots on blue and join red. Set ana to headshot only and unable to ult or sleep. Make her damage very low.

Then set widow to receive low damage and receive lots on heals so you can grab any healthkit to full heal if they wear you down. They kill them. They will dodge, flank, and usually never sit still for long, they will peak, shoot, flank around, peak shoot, flank back, etc.

This makes for good tense practice. I recommend practicing flicking, I don't mean blind and in the general direction, pause a moment and think about how far your mouse should move, then flick directly there and shoot. After awhile you can get really fast at it. With dragging or tracking during high intensity moments you won't be able to keep your aim steady, but you will be able to make accurate flicks land if you practice correctly.

I do this warm up every day that I play and have had no issue with feeling off anymore. I used to feel like my sensitivity had changed if I didn't practice, it felt as if it was slower or faster than the night before.
Good tip.

Now that I think about it, I've been slacking on my warm ups. 
I don't tend to quick scope unless I need to reach them from afar since quick scoping seems to make my shots per second much slower. I've practiced a lot of unscoped shots. And after some good warm ups, my unscoped shots are by far my most reliable heals at any range except super far away. 

But you're right. I should rely on quick scoping when my normal aim is off. It's definitely a lot more useful than not hitting anything. 
I mean if you're having an off day you're more than likely to drop a ton. Which is why I am a huge advocate for taking a break or just calling it quits when you lose a few in a row. I figure that if you are losing, you're already in a worse mental place so it's best to stop before you pick up bad habits and just tank your rating. 
What I personally do if I'm missing all my ana shots is switch to mercy or zen so Im not being dead weight. Then just not play ana for comp for a few days. 
I also add a soldier and Lucio for good measure. I warm up in training first then do the Ana bot, and now I've added a couple of games of ffa DM to play against actual people also. Been warming up with the Ana bots for months now tho I figured widow mains usually do unless they kephrii tier hahahaha.
no you wont hit mobile heroes reliable on midrange even, would consider to quickscope or scope already for 15-20m+

her projectile speed is 85.5 thats around the same as hanzo fully drawn so no its not very reliable
I like widow hs for warmup, but the skill of players vary and it can make for some poor practice. Also it can be pretty hard to get a good game. Deathmatch does make it nicer though since skirmish can be frustrating to fill.
But I do. :P

I've taken a lot of time to learn her dart speed. I can reliably hit unscoped at most distances. The reason I did this training is because it's the fastest way to get heals out with Ana. Quick scoping is good for emergencies when your team mate is critical and they need instant heals, but it greatly diminishes the amount of heals you can put out (assuming you can land either type of shot).

But, I think this also accounts for play style. My play-style is different than yours. And that is also a good point to tell new players. Play styles can differ, but there are caveats to all of them. 
Yea widow ha can be hit or miss, I like deathmatch cuz more often than not it won't me Widow V widow, it'll be widow V genji/tracer/DF/etc. Endless dueling practice
your post is about not hitting shots, so clearly something is off. also htiscan is hitscan, it wont miss if you aim correctly, however if you dont scope theres room for error.
It is about hitting shots. I'm not sure I understand what you are trying to say. 

Hits can is great, unless you can hit as reliably unscoped. This is because unscoped will yield much more heal potential.

I'm talking about the games where I can manage to hit anything regardless of my play style. 

I appreciate your advice, and it's definitely solid advice. But my reply just meant to point out that quick scoping, though useful, the way I play, sees little benefit from doing it so often.

Not getting a lot of gold medals but keep winning : am I getting carried?
Genuine question, I don't know if it's bad because I switch from roles between rounds if it's not working so that might be a cause, but I don't usually get gold medals that often anymore even though I keep winning. At what point do I know if I'm getting carried or winning by my own merits?

https://masteroverwatch.com/profile/pc/us/Kuhaku-12617/heroes

medals dont mean anything. It really depends on what hero you play. If you play Widowmaker, your job is to make space and deny the enemy sightlines. Instakilling a zen/mercy at the beginning of a teamfight is a huge impact but statistically, it's just one kill. 

As zen, you have low healrate and low damage, so if you have a second support it's possible to have silver healing as zen. And gold damage as zen is a feat.

Your best indicator of being carried or not is your soloQ Winrate
medals don't always tell the full story, do you feel like you are having an impact in the games you are playing?
We need a video. You could be doing something as simple as just denying terrain to the enemy team, which wins matches all on its own.
Your stats look solid your Pharah even pretty good.

If you regulary win without getting goldmedals that propably means that your targetselection is excellent you you should consider making / learning to do shotcalls for your Team to share your skills with them.
pontless post, cant really tell you anything nor is this post about improving
My winrate so far is amazing and I only play SoloQ, but it could be a lucky streak so I'm not sure yet I guess need a bigger sample size.
Zen has low damage? With discord and rmb he has some of the highest burst in the game. You can totally get dmg medals with zen fairly consistently.
To add to this, medals are *only* important if you lose. If none of your tanks get gold for objective time and you lose, they clearly need to keep their ass on the objective and partner up for allies to assist them.
I think so yeah. I don't really feel like I'm doing bad or feel out of place, but I don't feel like I'm playing super amazing either
This
Ever since I started playing Mei on Attack/ Control and Torb on Defense, my winrate has skyrocketed. I'm not even trying to get gold medals anymore, I'm trying to defend my team and the point: actually playing the objective.
Before they separated hero and shield damage I got gold damage routinely.  Sometimes I'm still up there.
Mei is soooooo awesome lol

A basic rollout/ wallriding really fast guide.
https://youtu.be/sscjAeYMec8

tl;dr bind jump to scroll and scroll no faster than a sane person would scroll a cat to get fast speed off walls. same works on ground for bunnyhopping and you can press WA or WD in the air while moving your mouse to the left or right to go left or right. This is ridiculously simplified I really recommend watching the video ^^^Ever since I remapped jump to RMB and Boop to MMB I've never looked back. Nice rollout guide though!
Is that the Stanky layout?
Stanky used RMB for jump, I think he used space for crossfade and shift to amp. I don't use those.

On Nepal Village, why do teams almost always go for the ramp leading to high ground (non-cliff side) at the start of a round? Would it not be better to go the other way and beat them to the point?
I know high ground is an advantage, but the bridge blocks the best view of the point. So why do teams always go that way when they could have the enemy team being funneled towards them by being on point first?High ground is superior for fighting but reaching point first has its benefits. Both strategies are passable but generally going point first is because you feel clashing up top is disadvantageous for some reason and would rather turtle at bottom.
its over anakin i have the HIGH GROUND. 
Typically most team comps are advantageous if they are on the high ground. The only way I can see people going straight to point and choosing to 6 v 6 their would be if they have a may and a reaper/doomfist. 
Basically, highground is really, really good and being on the point at the beginning of the round doesn't do much since you need to wait some time before the point is activated. But there are some cases where going directly to the point is a good strategy:  

1 If you don't have a lucio. If you go highground without a lucio, the enemy team will already be on the highground and spamming your entrance when you will be in the little house leading to the highground. You're almost garanteed to lose the fight. Going to point gives you better odds.

2 If you have a specific line up that is strongest on point. You pick a close quarters team, rush the point and make the enemy team come to you and fight on your own terms on the point. Take rein/zarya/doomfist/reaper/hog/mei (her wall completely blocks one side of the point). You basically chill on point and obliterate anything that comes into your kill range. And you never leave the point. 
I like to plan the team to go there if everyone's cooperative,  let the other team rush the point, we kill them while they're on the point and we have high ground plus the pillars as cover, either wipe or make them run away by the time then points active or a little after before they can cap it,  we get on cap it and happy days
Reason why high ground rollout is preferred is because:

- The point doesnt unlock immediately

- Taking the point early doesnt guarantee youll keep it for long, you are vulnerable to attack on left and right sides as well as from above. 

- Theres no real good escape routes either if the other team has the higher ground.
The point doesn't open immediately and you're going to probably have a pick before then. it also gives you more options. If you both meet up top it's the same as if you both meet bottom
 But if you take top and they take bottom, you have an advantage. I can't really see how going bottom would be good, I suppose if you have no Lucio.

High ground is even advantageous for a tank like winston or dva since you can drop on someone and use your mobility to get elevation again (and repeat said process).

It's also easier to reinforce high ground than low ground on nepal village specifically
Depends on comp
The point doesn't activate right away. Besides, having high ground is better and if you look at top level players they tend to focus completely on fights before taking the point. They don't fight on the point
To add to this, your team comp largely affects this decision. For example, if you don't have a Lucio and the enemy does, they'll reach the top first and start launching attacks into the small doorway where you just reached putting you in a choke and thus at a disadvantage. Without a Lucio, it is usually the safer option to go another route instead of hoping the enemy team doesn't have one either.

The main reason you may want to be on the high ground at the beginning is because you want to get at least one pick before the point is contestable to better guarantee your capture.
Absolutely this, but also, why would you want to fight on the point while it's not even unlocked? 
Let the opponent bring the fight to you whilst you're in a more advantageous position, then cap the point.
Yeah, if you have no Lucio and they have Lucio + good spam then that doorway up top is an absolute meat-grinder.
And adding more to this : capping the point first means youre probably going to lose the first fight because you're fighting from the low ground, a disadvantage position. Your team may get 10-20% on the capture but the first fight will be very difficult to win. 

After the first fight, the enemy will probably have 30-40% on the capture by the time your team has enough ults to re-flip the control. 
You may not sit right on the point, but the idea is to get your Reaper, Mei, etc. close to it and then take cover on the far end where high ground can't hit you and you're "defending" the point against them. You don't necessarily have a big advantage when they come down to get you, but your comp might favor an engagement on the point over a fight for high ground.
Hold up; the point is less favorable than the high ground, but capturing it first is always advantageous. It's very easy to string out the first capture to a big lead in capture % as long as you don't lose decisively. That said even if they take high ground and you take point they should have plenty of time to come contest you down there; the "advantage" is mostly that you're set up on the point and they have no choice but to come down there in force to stop an early cap.
That's the thing. It all comes down to how much % you can get out of the early cap. If you can get 20+ that's great. It was worth it. But if the enemy hold the high ground for the initial 20s before the point unlocked, they can retake easily before 15% builds. The enemy team is 15% behind on the capture point but now they have more ult charge thus allowing them to hold the point longer. 
It's pretty rare to cap first and lose the first fight; once you have the point you're at a big advantage since you don't have to sit on it but the attackers do.

Even prior to the initial cap the whole strategy for going point first is that you get your tanks set up and everyone grabs their preferred cover while the other team is up there; high ground is nice and all but they have to leave it to contest you and if you've got some good close quarters heroes they're already in a position where the enemy can't keep them away from the point.

This exact dilemma is why people had so much trouble defending Horizon point A; everyone thought defenders should be set up on the high ground, but attackers could just scoot around to the left and reach the point, forcing defenders into a very unfavorable position where they had to advance through their own chokepoint to contest. The meta I see now for Horizon is for the defenders to just bring a barrier and fight on the point; there's enough cover to make it work and the high ground offers surprisingly poor angles of attack inside. Nepal Village has similar terrain.

How do I play against Tracer and Genji Threats
How do I play around Genji and Tracer's main threats? What are their main threats? When should I switch off? What are your tips? Tracer main threats:

- Junkrat cancer spam
- Hanzo floor arrow
- Sombra hack
- Windowmaker capable of accurate flicks
- Mei right-click headshot (extremely forgiving hitbox)
- Overextending on the part of the Tracer
- Any other form of burst in general

I don't play Genji so I won't comment there.
Supports generally have a rough time with flankers, but none of them are helpless. If you're good enough you can still manage to fend them off.
doesent matter what you switch to

you need someone to peel for you

positioning is your best friend

make it as hard as possible for them to kill you

genji has a dash, when he dashes winston can kill him for free usually

tracer is harder to deal with but keep track of her blinks and recall, you win vs tracer when shes out of blinks. they will usually go in cover and go for healthpacks etc when they are out of blinks and got hit. dont stand still too much because you will get one clipped from behind, strafing is good
Dont group to tight. Spread out some so you can watch them go for so meone if they flank. If you play front line mid line backline your feeding into the 2 front war they want.

Spread in a circle no more than 15m apart in groups of 2 everyone needs sight lines to everyone. 

Then you simply supress a hard flank with focus fire.

Thats what i do.
Tracer main here. I'm always wary of a good Hanzo, Sombra, and Mccree. If they focus Tracer and are good at what they do, she can be shut down hard. As said by another commenter, a good Tracer can deal with almost any of her counters through baiting and tactical evasion, but those characters are still solid threats that a smart Tracer will always be careful around.

If you're playing support, Tracer usually has the easiest time dealing with Ana and Zenyatta. They're both very immobile and if you can sneak up on them and/or avoid being slept or discorded (especially discorded because if Zen doesn't wreck you his team will) it's a very straightforward fight. If you play either and Tracer is giving you trouble, switch to more mobile supports like Lucio or Mercy. Lucio can boop her off and speed off to safety. An evasive Mercy will take advantage of her teams positioning and guardian angel back and forth, eventually drawing attention to Tracer and forcing her to either retreat or focus on a different target.

As far as direct 1v1s go, keep track of her blinks. Tracer has 3 blinks and a recall in her kit. If you see Tracer recall, hit her as hard as you can. She will have to retreat if she's low on blinks. Also, pay attention to where she was before recall because you can predict where she's going to turn up and load an attack right at her. 

I hope this helps! Most of my experience countering Tracer comes from playing her so much, so I can usually predict when she's gonna pulse bomb and how she's going to move when dealing with the enemy variation. If you have any questions, I'm happy to help!



Don't forget McCree
How would you play around them? Switch off? Stay away from them? Switch up play style? 
Do you use blinks offensivley or defensively or taking adventage of oppuritnies?
When you play against a Tracer. When you keep track of blinks, do you account for 3 blinks or 4 becausw one charge my appear
McCree is not a counter to Tracer. Bait flash (or stay at mid-range) and win.
If the enemy team comp is exceptionally poor for Tracer, I will switch. This is usually if they have both a competent Hanzo and competent Sombra, otherwise I can usually play around most anything else.

Sometimes just dialing back the aggressiveness is all it takes (e.g. avoiding Junkrat spam). Always keep at least one blink for escaping, and remember that it's ok to just stand around waiting in the enemy backline for your team to re-engage. As Tracer you have the power to choose when your engagements start, so patience is often key.

Sorry if this is too generalized/obvious--best I can do to explain my overarching thought process.
they are used for everyhing
It depends on how quickly she uses her blinks. Sometimes a Tracer will triple blink into a fight to drop a pulse bomb or finish a weak target, but the general style is blink+reload, blink+reload, blink+reload. If timed correctly, Tracer will always have one blink in the bank and her recall if she hasn't  used it.
Tracer doesnt have any hard counters, but a good Mcree is always a threat to her.
Hmmm, but that's why good McCree's don't go willy nelly with their flash bangs :D

Also, mid range is optimal for McCree with good aim, no? 
Thanks! I always underestimate Hanzo and Junkrat spam. 
I mean. Would you usually use them as initiation? What habita should or would you build when using it? (Sorry if I sound dumb) I am a washed up Mercy Main
Not if you blink well as tracer, the goal is to stay just out of flash range and blink in and out to force flash/get free dmg.
just to clarify you are on the receiving end right? 

tracers will usually blink and use the whole mag, then blink and reload again. they will blink out when they are low to get healthpacks and recharge blinks.
Huh, interesting! 

Isn't Tracer's falloff around 15-20 meters, flashbang's range is 10 meters, and Tracer's blink 5 meters?

Just seems like that's cutting a fine line, is all.

Wouldn't it be easier to switch to S76, so McCree isn't that much of a threat?

(Not arguing, just trying to understand.)
Recieving end? Please Clarify
well you are not the one that plays tracer right lol
Oh. I meant I am the Tracer

How to deal with pharmercy as a tank main?
Hello, im a tank main, and iv recently been finding pharmercy in nearly everyone of my games(atleast 2/5 games) and I just dont know what to do about it anymore. I main  roadhog and rein/winston, but there is nothing I can really do to counter it and it leaves me heavily reliant on my dps to do it. Most of the time it doesnt really work out ( iv dropped 600 sr ). So what can I do to help deal with the pharmercy?Can't really do anything as rein, you don't have any mobility unless the Pharah or Mercy hits the ground, and then you could charge them. You could try to jump in the air and go after the Mercy or Pharah as Winston, but they can just fly away and then you'll have to wait until your jump is off CD again. You could land reliable hooks on the Pharah, which will pull her out of the sky. If you do that your DPS may have a better chance of hitting them, you could also go DVA and get up in the Pharahs face. While you can't stay up there for long, at least your distracting her long enough to hopefully get a DPS to pick her off. 
If you can't kill pharmercy controller them, minigate their effectiveness. If you're running a dive heavy comp dva is best. Orisa can work surprising well if the other team isn't diving hard. Winston can kinda sorta be a threat if he jumps at them
Learn to play a hitscan, preferably Widowmaker. Even if it means you switch and now your team has 3 DPS or even 4 DPS, if you can shutdown both Pharah and Mercy then you as 1/6 of your team is already handling 2/6 of the enemy team, which is a huge boon.

Honestly if you want to stay as a tank then there is not much you're going to able to do to stop a good Pharmercy duo. None of the tanks are capable of killing a Pharah, nevermind one who is being pocketed.
Dva can buy your dps valuable time to try to take out one of them. When defense matrix runs out you can try to get in her face. 
hog: hook her when shes in range

dva: block rockets and ults, do some damage when you boost to her, you can kill her when ulting

rein: cant really do much, firestrike the ult at best, shield teammates

orisa: shieldteammates, annoy her with rightclick and leftclick

zarya: get charge from rockets to pressure others, rmb ults, damage her when shes close(15m beam range is longer than you expect)

winston: you can damage her a bit when you jump to her
As Winston try to sneak up underneath mercy and shoot her as she falls, then when she uses guardian angel back to Pharah you can use your jump and chase her while shooting. If she's slow you could kill her but if she survives she'll be low health and either die or have to run away 
Everyone is giving some good advice, but with a lot of tanks that usually isn't a fight worth taking. It's worth it a lot of times to hang out indoors or under roofs so that Pharah has a much harder time hitting you. 
I can typically hook pharah if she gets low enough, but if shes that low her shift will be off cooldown and shes right back up again. Is it worth it to go after her as d.va? I feel like I leave my  team too vulnerable if i do that.
I mean as long as you have another tank it shouldn't be a problem. If none of your dps is willing to focus her or switch to something to counter pharah it's really the only option you'll have (that I can think of) especially if she's murdering your back line. 


Now if she isn't hitting her shots and isn't causing problems, it's probably not worth it to go DvA. 



Okay, and a little off topic but do you think the new d.va will be better at dealing with a pharah?
I think so, shell at least be able to fly and shoot, which will help get in her face and do more damage to her. 
This is up to debate, D.Va is good vs. Pharah not because she can pressure her,  sure D.Va can chase her all map but that will only put D.Va in disadvantageous position and Pharah team will focus her up. D.Va is good because Matrix is very strong on pushes, removing any thread from Pharah projectiles, especially on Escort maps and matrix fully negates Justice Rains From Above, which again is sick as it is very powerful ult that can easily claim 2-3 people in seconds. The fact that now D.Va matrix is twice shorter makes her twice less effective against dealing with pharah as she will not be able to cover her team so effectively now. And if its Pharah+Mercy D.Va will just not burn through it - end of story. 

i got no idea on what to do as a main tank vs a good Reaper
i'm LIVID right now, as i ALWAYS am when i face a good reaper

there is nothing, NOTHING, FUCKIGN NOTHING i can do against him: 

- he wins 1vs1;

- i got no way to prevent his influence over my teammates unless im playing DVa (and even then its just for 4 seconds, way too low);

- NO ONE does anything against him when he flanks, not even if you call him on voice chat, its fucking EU, no one even listens anyways or is in voice chat in the first place;

- he literally holds down left click and wins every single trade you can do against him, he doesnt need aim, his spread his gigantic, as is your hitbox;

- he is lierally IMMORTAL against you if he's getting pocketed.

I've ran out of options i've got no idea on what to do,i usually PM Reaper players to duo with me so i dont find them in soloQ.

Making Reaper not insta-die against Roadhog was a fucking mistake, now tank mains have no option against him in soloQ, while every single class has an option against him.Sounds like your teammates are more of a problem than Reaper to be honest, he's not difficult to take down if your DPS focus him a bit as well. 

Dva is annoying as fuck to play against as Reaper, but that's not really relevant anymore with the changes to DM.

I personally feel like Reinhardt is the most annoying tank to fight as Reaper. If a Rein actually swings at me the knock back is irritating as fuck and does a fair amount of damage. That being said most Reins I go against just back away with their shield up, when they do that it is beyond easy to kill them... just walk through the shield and aim at the head lol.

Idk what else to tell you, you shouldn't be 1v1ing your direct counter but if your team isn't listening and co-operating... what can you do.
You've listed all reaper's pluses and neglected to pay attention to his one fatal flaw - his attack has no range whatsoever. Orisa can keep him away with halt, zarya can kite him if she knows he's coming, dva you already covered (even with the upcoming dm nerf she can now hurt him while dm is still up with boop shotgun & missile combo), rein I'm told can deal with him(?) though it seems dubious to me if your team are of no help.

When your team are hopeless at supporting you, in a pinch you can try doing the same thing I often do as mercy when no-one will help peel for me - try to position one or more teammates directly between the flanker & you. In other words use them as meatshields. Once they're the ones being torn up, they might just wake up and help you. It'll feel like a terribly suboptimal thing to do as a tank, when you're meant to be busy creating space, but if you're only going to get killed anyway it's better to deal with a flanker problem yourself than being in the correct position but getting killed regardless.. you're no use to anyone if you're dead.
Hey, I play Roadie a lot and I can generally manage well against a equally skilled Reaper.

Couple of things: Playing Hog into Reaper requires a certain mentality. You have to hunt him rather than let him hunt you. You have to make him switch. Outside of Zarya, no other Tank can really do this. For Reaper you should absolutely Shoot first. If he is in that nasty range between 3-8m. Headshot with the Right-Click(it is not hard, the proj is huge) for the Guaranteed 100dmg/Hook and Shoot. You only need 120dmg on the combo shot and with proper timing Reaper cant heal back the damage unlike finishing with melee. You should never try to finish with melee against Reaper because you are likely to be taken HS dmg and he will heal it back anyway. 

Contrary to popular thought Hooking first and 2 shot him still works as well. You can easily do 175-200dmg with the combo and even if he lands a HS he only heals back 56HP, giving him roughly 100HP to hit the follow up shot.  Do this enough times and he will start instinctively Wraithing out of the hook, which is a win itself. (obviously you run the risk of taking 280dmg to the face though, which is hardly ideal)  

His biggest threat is when he is 2nd man in. You absolutely cannot let him Brawl in Teamfights unchecked. He is either Wraithing away after every dive or he is dead, there is no inbetween. If he is being pocketed, then the mercy is vulnerable...kill her. 

Hog is all about asserting dominance, Predicting his flanks and punishing him for it goes along way to establishing this. Reaper has one huge flaw: he has to be close in order to work. Fear and indecision are your biggest allies against him.

 ***** I try to always shoot first than hook as a general rule anyway, except for Heroes that i can confidently 1shot(Mcree, Junkrat, etc), elusive enough where the Hook has its own benefits( Tracer, Genji, etc)  or are generally at a range where I cant shoot first effectively(Pharah, Zenyatta, etc).
Orisa can do sort of ok against reaper as long as you seem him coming,barrier dance and use halt to get him the other side of your barrier and melt him down with your primary,since the buff and reapers general slower speed you can melt him down quite quickly.its defiantly not a great 1v1 but sorta viable

Edit:Forget to mention pop Fortify aswell,not only does it reduce the damge you take but reduces the HP he gains from hits

But yea as a zarya main reaper is by far my worst 1v1 and die to him way more than other hero.

What you have to do, is find yourself a good DPS player to at least duo-queue in. Reaper is a counter to any tank, but he is also countered by a lot of DPS aswell. McCree and Sombra are good examples, as well as mei. You can't do much against your counter, you need someone else to counter it. But, as a tank, your best option is to grab D.Va and matrix him, and hope your team kill him, or at least make him back-off. Triple tank would be great, so you can stay in the back-line, helping your healers. Other option, if you have good sense of aiming as Orisa, you could try 1v1 him with her ability to take less damage, and keep pulling him over with right-click. Also, shielding when you can. It is a hard time for you as a tank so, you should find a good DPS, like i said before.
As a DVA main the I've learned the moment I see a reaper on the opposite team is to tell the whole team straight away that "the moment we see Reaper that fuckers gonna be covered in DM so kill him instantly". I honestly drill that into them before the game starts or if its just started. you have to make it a PRIORITY. Good reapers can mentally tilt you beyond the known
As ROADHOG you can usually kill him if you get some decent alt-fire hits before you hook him. If you start to get near 300 health then heal.
I had this problem as a dps to be honest. He was being Mercy healed and had a pocket Zarya. I swear it was impossible to get him down. I had to killl the Zarya first (hard with Reaper on you) every time. Team was blindly shooting Zaryas shield and powering her up, only focusing Reaper until he phase shifted and then letting his cool down play out while they shot at something random. 
Orisa/D.Va work well against him. Both have good amounts of armor, Orisa can halve his damage with her Fortify and pull him around with Halt. If you combine these with some shield dancing it's very hard for him to face off against you if you know where he is. As for D.Va, you can fly at him with Matrix raised, and then just as you crash into him, cancel it with melee. That knocks him a good distance away and most likely out of effective range.

Don't try to 1v1 him. He's the designated tankbuster and tanking abilities only last so long. Killing someone is the best way to deny their effectiveness, but that's a double-edged sword. He might die but so might you, and pushing is a lot harder with one less tank. Plus, that Reaper will just have been fed a metric fuckton of ult charge. In this case, just think of how you can use your abilities to prevent him from doing his job. Matrix is an obvious one, but that requires your team to coordinate. Take advantage of team coordination if you have it, but don't expect or rely on it alone, this is SoloQ we are talking about.

Footnote: Actually, that second tip up top has a lot of practical applications. Envirokills by booping them around near ledges, coming at Rein from the side to fuck up his charge, peeling for your healers (especially when it's Winston jumping on them). It's amazingly versatile.
Orisa is great against Reaper. Strafe shield 1-2 times, then use halt for pulling him on opposite side of shield. By this time, with good headshot aim, he'll wraith away or die.
>he wins 1vs1

if you position yourself so you fight him 1v1 you deserve to die there for bad positioning

>i got no way to prevent his influence over my teammates unless im playing DVa (and even then its just for 4 seconds, way too low);

wrong, you can pressure him fairly decent with rein, dva, zarya, orisa and hog

>he literally holds down left click and wins every single trade you can do against him, he doesnt need aim, his spread his gigantic, as is your hitbox;

you have shields or other abilites to prevent this


>he is lierally IMMORTAL against you if he's getting pocketed. 

hes not, also if you have reaper + pocket on you. your dps and other tanks should have an easy game vs the other support/dps/tank due to the lack of support
Had a orisa, solider, and dva shooting an enemy reaper pocketed by a mercy. He survived just feeding on our tanks then killed the solider and the rest of our team. I think he needs a nerf but that's just me. I am ass too so that could be it.
my issue is that he is countered only by damn DPS or Ana

i actually shit on him as Ana, but as a tank?

shit you can do except hope the DPS are good, unless i'm mistaken
the main prob is KotH, where the lack of range is not a big issue when you have to hold the point in the first place :/
ok ill try
>Have Dva shoot the Reaper instead of matrixing him

>NERF REAPER

k then
Well yeah, he's a tank counter so a tank can't really do that much about it, which makes sense. It's the team's job to support each other but a lot of the time they just... don't.
The easy way to beat reaper, simply fight him at a numbers advantage. Often reaper has to get out of position from his own team to attack you, you can use this chance for you and your teammates to gang up on him. 

If Reaper is proving too much of a problem for you, try to tell your team Reaper is causing you trouble (And with all communications be nice about it; just because your teammates might be morons doesn't stop them from having feelings, feelings that will make them act stupider if they feel personally attacked)
Roadhog can usually force a wraith if you hook him. DVA absolutely shuts him down right now, but won't after the patch. Zarya can do decent against him with bubbles, buys enough time for someone to deal with him. Orissa can keep him at bay for a bit with her abilities. 

Winston and Rein can have trouble but if you can keep a barrier between you and him you can do ok.

In any case 1v1s with a tank is exactly where reaper excels, so at some point you'll need team support. Make sure you call it out in voice whenever he's on you so people will help.
To be fair, with the DM nerfs, Reaper is going to get a lot stronger against Dva. 
yeah fucking sucks, it's fucking bs that you can't counter a dude with any hero out of a class, it's basically a reaper-only thing and it's retarded, wish they'd rework him because it sucks for soloqueuers

rein works sometimes yeah btw, that's what i found out as well
Not really. With the missiles, it's gonna be that much easier to make him fuck off in a ghostly fashion or die. You won't need the full 4 seconds.
Reaper is designed to be a tank buster. You shouldn't be trying to 1v1 him and you shouldn't expect to win that matchup. Why do you think you should win that match up? That's what doesn't make sense.

You need to position correctly relative to your team and call him out. Your team, even Zen or Ana, can neuter him if you give them some protection.
> Reaper is designed to be a tank buster.

that's the issue

no hero counters a whole class "by design"

it's a reaper-only thing, and it makes for unbalanced games for soloqueuers
You're ridiculous.
Winston is kind of a counter to the Support class. 
Reaper doesn't counter the class. He makes the class do their work as part of a team, not solo. Even solo q you have to work as part of a team.

If DVa throws DM on Reaper or Zarya bubbles or Winston bubble dances or Rein properly angles his shield, the DPS should be able to focus him down in a few seconds. He will be forced to wraith away and your healers will build ult charge off of any damage he got in. A hero with good mobility also may be able to hunt him down and kill once he is out of wraith.
tell me wich other hero counters a whole class without any hero in said class being able to shit on him
tbh with Ana you have no probs usually, just sleep him

even tho i realize i'm sounding very bitchy so i won't complain anymore
what can i say?

i always lose vs a good reaper, they always go completely unchecked and tilt the whole time to oblivion and beyond

it's like winston, except with 10x the damage and -3x the hitbox, so people dont notice him don't do anything against him and he just dominates

i just pretend its lost against a reaper and alreaqdy think about he next game

> If DVa throws DM on Reaper or Zarya bubbles or Winston bubble dances or Rein properly angles his shield, the DPS should be able to focus him down in a few seconds.

they don't

this is the issue: they don't

and another issue is: the DPS needs to be more skilled than the Reaper, because any DPS is more difficult to play than Reaper
Tracer vs supports. 
> tbh with Ana you have no probs usually, just sleep him


So you shouldn't have a prob with reaper as a rein, just charge him  /s
Generally, yes, if he doesn't have a bubble up. 
that shut him up quick
dude if u have to be a smartass use better examples pls

sleeping a winston is ez af with Ana if you have 2 hands

How do you improve situational awareness?
It's recently been pointed out to me that I really lack situational awareness in this game. I mean, I literally have none. It doesn't help, because I play Mercy most of the time, and need to know where damage is coming from and where my teammates are in relation to me. I don't know if it's something that's fixable, or if I will forever be clueless as to how the enemy mange to always get right behind me without me noticing. Is there anything you guys recommend to help a poor, situationally retarded Mercy main out? I'd appreciate it.Not a mercy main but defaulted a lot of hours on her just by filling. My tips-

1) always be looking around, and darting around. A moving mercy sees everything and is harder to hit. Only stand still if you're with someone, preferably a tank. 

2) DO NOT focus on enemies. I spent seconds in a quick thinking situation looking at an enemy coming at me or a teammate like I could do something to him specifically. Break that habit if you have it.

3) know the other teams comp. I think this is the key. If they have Tracer/Genji/Winston etc, they're coming for you, whether it be directly or through a flank, YOU are the first target. If it's a stationary/Not mobile, like Torb, Zarya, Hog (although he's a good flank now), Widow, etc, you can be a little less on edge because there's an increased likelihood the enemies are in front of you, not trying to get behind you. 
I think it can be broken down into a few categories:

- Sounds: I really recommend investing in a nice pair of earphones for Overwatch since you can use sound queues to deduce locations. As far as I know, every character has a unique footstep sound. [Here's an example from a Mercy VOD I talked over](https://youtu.be/JJlxi59OjRo?t=16m31s) - if you listen real close, you can hear Winston's footsteps at around 16:33/16:34. If we hadn't already won the fight, the information may have been useful for my team to know - "Winston behind us, help"

- Your own movement: As Mercy, I try to never stand still. I often have some form of strafing pattern (maybe wasd'ing around in circles) and will quickly flick/move mouse so I can see a different direction. Say I'm defending the beginning of Dorado and my team is positioned up top, looking down at the road. I'll keep an eye out on the stairs behind us that leads to higher ground and call out enemy activity I see. 

- Predicting ults: I've used this example in a bunch of posts but analyse the enemy team and decide which characters are the most dangerous generally and in regards to their ult. You then want to keep it in mind and try to track them. For example, if Genji hasn't ulted in a few minutes, you may want to position further back. If Zarya hasn't used Graviton for a while, distance yourself or play around corners. It can be hard to do this for six enemies which is why I suggested focusing on the most dangerous ones. Mccree's ult is less scary than Genji or Zarya because I should almost always be positioned in a way where I can easily hide behind cover or react appropriately. 

- Tracking enemy abilities and play to their limitations: You'd probably go crazy trying to follow every single enemy's various abilities but there's a couple that can be really useful for noting. For example, if you see Sombra hack a person/healthkit, you know you're safe for six seconds (outside of EMP). This is really useful for characters with mobility related abilities who may come after you. For example, say you have an ally on higher ground. You fly to them then Winston jumps up. You could then jump back down to lower ground then get back up after he's followed you. If the enemy had Tracer you would know she doesn't have a jump ability and would need to go around to get to you

- Check the Scoreboard a lot: I love pressing tab as Mercy. I often look for character changes and inform my team about it. Plus if you see someone change, you know their ult charge is reset and can play around it somewhat. 

- Communicate with your team 
Hi! I'm a diamond Mercy main with over 150 hours on her. As Mercy, youre kinda like a goalie in soccer. You see all, and if you use guardian angel correctly you'll be able to get a wide view of the playing field. Being able to quickly turn and see a genji trying to flank you while simultaneously flying to your pharah so he can't kill you is a skill that takes time to learn, albeit it is a learnable skill. 



If you use GA to erratically move between your teammates, it will make it hard to hit you, but it will also make you a more effective support and damage booster. It'll also give you the ability to see which enemy teammates are where. 


I've also noticed if you use tab often, you can see what the enemy team is playing, which will help you predict who is where and why. Also trying to keep track of enemy team ults is something that will put you at a huge advantage.


For example, you see an enemy reaper out of the corner of your eye who is up on a building. You surmise that he hasn't ulted in a while, so he probably has ult and is trying to find an opportunity to ult. If you call it out to your team, and the location of the reaper, they can either move accordingly to stay out of his ult, or they can jump him and murder him before he gets the chance to use it. 



Do you by chance have any gameplay recorded? I could better tell you what you need to work on if I could see how you played. 


If you have any questions or anything don't hesitate to message me. I went from sub 1k  to diamond in two seasons playing mostly Mercy, so I can relate to the struggle of learning how to position yourself correctly. 
Play more games. Its to general to tell you play said pick etc.

I can predict most times rein has ult not because of his movement but because i pay attention to how many swings hes got in. How many firestrikes etc. 

I want you to make it simple as to many get complex with it.

I want you to focus on one character on the enemy team and try your best to call out that they have ult WITHOUT the killcam. Youll get a sense for it even though you not focused on it overtime it will come to you. Then youll learn to outplay it various ways. 

As a hog player i can tell ive fed gengji and my team deserves a callout. If ive been swung on by rein they deserve a call. If zarya has stayed high charge and has got some good splash or direct damage in gravs a comin. 

If reaper took me on 1v1 i know hes got ult even if ive won the fight unless i dominated him. 

It comes easier to some then others and that doesnt make you bad. It means your aware and your trying to improve. Youll go far with that.

Just keep it simple. One enemy that you know avoiding or predicting there ult will save your fight.

In your case as mercy try to predict gengji and zaryas ults to make sure your team eats those and baits them so you can nullify that fat grav and turn it into a big rez. 

Or choose a diffrent way. Be creative. 
Definitely don't give up! Situational awareness is a skill to be trained, just like any other. Although you've gotten lots of other good tips, there's really only one thing you need to do: train your mind to be aware. 

To do this, it just needs practice. When I started out, I was terrible for flanking and going into bad positions. So I told my brain "every 30 seconds, ask: where am I?" This got me into the habit of actually making it an active state of mind. 

You need train your brain similarly. Make a list of questions/things to learn. For example, Where is the enemy? Where is my team? What enemy is most likely to attack me right Now? Just come up with 4 or 5 of these "mental notes"

Next time you're in a game, choose one of these mental notes, write it on a piece of paper, And stick it to your screen, and every 20-30 seconds make sure to ask it of yourself. So every 30 seconds in a game, your training your brain to check something. 

Cycle through the questions in each game, And they'll start to happen naturally, and you'll start to put them together in game and create mindfulness. 
Mercy is the easiest hero to improve game sense tbh. Set your beam to toggle, click to heal someone and pan around the map. Your beam is healing/damage amping, you're already doing your job. Now look around the map and analyze the situation:

- press tab, what is the enemy team comp? 

- is there a soldier? is he on high ground getting free damage in? 

- how long has the round been now? who probably has ultimates? 

- if soldier or pharah has been spamming your team a lot for a while, they probably have ults. tell your team to be aware. 

- where are your teammates? if youre being harassed, is there someone you can fly to? 

- are you in a position where you can get line of sight to fly to your stray teammate in case you need to? 

These are just some example of game sense. Mercy is like 99% game sense. Just set your beam on someone and think about other stuff. 
At it's core, situational awareness is a matter of applying attention to detail. So
to improve your situational awareness, pay more attention to everything you see. A very practical way for you to practice this is to start conveying everything you notice to your team. It's better to err on the side of over-information and then work towards just the right amount.

Keep your head on a swivel. Look around, but don't just look around for the sake of looking around. Pay attention to what you see when you're looking around. That figure moving in the distance could be a tracer about to get a wicked flank. Tell your team, "I saw a Tracer dart off to the right".

A lack of something is still information. If you don't see the reaper, that doesn't mean he doesn't exist. Where he isn't tells you where he could be. Tell your team, "I don't see reaper, does anyone have eyes?".

Pay attention to your team. Where are they looking? Are they creating a blind spot you should be checking? Tell your team, "That Reindhardt got behind us and is alone, PUNISH HIM!"

Pay attention to the sounds. If you get comfortable picking out the sound of the healing beam and when someone's topped off, you don't need to focus on the meter and can divert your attention elsewhere. Do you hear the *tromp tromp tromp* of Reaper boots? Or what about the very audible *TWAH!* whenever a Genji double jumps? Tell your team, "I hear a Genji close by"

Someone mentioned the tab screen. Use that to take stock of your team's current resources as well as the enemy team comp. This will help you identify which threats are priority and *need* to be eliminated. Tell your team, "Hey we've got a Graviton and a Dragonblade up! Stay alive and lets do that sick c-c-c-combo!"

There's a lot of information that this game throws at you. Learn how to take in all of that information at once to build a picture of what's happening. The more you think about how to convey it, the more you'll pay attention to it in the first place.
Just check the kill feed or count in your head. Sometime it's obvious, like your main heal or main tank goes down early unexpectedly. Other times it's about knowing the numbers advantage and then putting yourself in the correct position to either defend or retreat appropriately

Another aspect is thinking about who you don't see. (You're a dva and only see tanks and healers in the front, think about where flankers would come from.
I am not a pro by any measures. But I am also a newish player who had to deal with gaining situational awareness! When I started it was still double experience, and all my friends wanted to do was play Mayhem Mode in the arcade. We ended up continuing that for about 3 months straight. Let me tell you, you have to figure that out fast if you don't want to die every second.  Ults and secondary abilities charge extra fast, so it was good training to learn where and when to use them. 

Now, of course, I have to break the habit of spamming my moves. But I feel a lot more aware of what's going on in a match than when I first started.
Just stop healing, shooting, boosting, and watch for a little. Listen to the sounds your teammates and the enemy make. Notice where your team is and where the enemy is. It will start to take less and less time to orient yourself to the situation.

Is there any possible way for me to avoid playing Mercy/support?
Don't get me wrong, I enjoy playing Mercy and that role, but it gets very exhausting when that's all anybody will let you play, assuming you're even lucky enough to not get flak for playing a different support.

I know the obvious answer is to just ignore it a pick anything I want, but with it being competitive, I also don't want to feel like me actively picking something other than support is putting the game at risk of a loss.

feelsbadmanDon't wait for everyone to pick something. Otherwise you always end up with support. Just instalock whatever you want ASAP and then if you playing what you instalocked really makes for a bad team comp, you switch.
Uhm, don't pick her then? The OW community is incredibly sensitive when it comes to team comps in ranked and everything else than 2-2-2 with Mercy as main healer will be considered throwing by some people (at least in low elo). I can't tell you how often I got reported for playing Widow before the match even started. Don't listen to those entitled scrubs and play what you want.
If people are toxic just mute them in chat and ignore them, pick what you think is intelligent.


remember back then, I let people pick first and filled in. most of the time I ended up with a tank but that was fine, I thought that they picked their strong heroes and we will win... turned out they were not being able to shoot anything and I was just dead meat in most of the games (mostly played rein/piggy) so I just started instapicking dps which I'm the most comcy at and even if we lose, at least I play something I'm confident at
Odd. In gold and most of my issues is nobody wants to play shield tanks unless you twist their arms.

Pick what you want to play and stand your ground. From experience people get bruised egos if they pick DPS and are asked to go tank or healer. Just be ready for tilt if nobody budges off their DPS picks.
Instalock dps and mute everyone 
I don't know how so many people run into this issue, i almost never experience it. Just pick a DPS or whatever when you load in? Almost every game i play theres atleast 1 mercy instalocking her, and i've almost never seen anyone get mad at someone for NOT playing mercy when on zenyatta or something.. 
Never solo queue. Get a new account and pretend to be a DPS main. Never tell anyone you normally play supports. It's a huge stigma in the community. Once they find out, you will be forced to play support again.
You can try to instalock and hope for the best. You could also make a few friends and alternate who plays what every few games. I go with the latter approach and it seems to work pretty well.
You'll just have to instalock dps and be prepared to be in teams with 6 dps if you don't want to keep filling.
Just play whatever you want. You're not solely responsible for having a good team comp. It also depends on what rank you play, I guess, but most comps with one healer can work.

Alternatively, befriend a Mercy or an Ana main.
If you wait, you have to fill (at least I see it like this). If you want something badly (and hopefully you are good at it) pick it early.

I am fine with fill, so I most times wait
Pick a tank. No one will ask the tank to switch and (hopefully) one of the DPS will end up switching to a healer. 
depends if you can play other roles. most mercy mains/players i see can barely play lucio so
Then you pick support, the other team goes pharah and your junkrat and reaper ignore her. So you swap off support to widow and kill pharah over and over while your team "reeeeeeees"

Despite the ezpz win.
I only started picking up Mercy more seriously after extensive play time in Tracer, Sombra, Torbjorn, Symmetra, Lucio, Zenyatta, Ana, Mei, and D.Va (with a little side of Orisa). Mercy is certainly not my crutch by any means.

The problem is, once you show any form of tolerance to play Mercy, that's all anybody will accept you playing, regardless of what you've played before with those people. It's truly dumb.
So are you in bronze or something? I've seen you in quite a few other posts, and your feedbacks don't seem to quite constructive for others. Maybe I'm wrong, and you're a really good and experienced player, but please, could you put your points across, at the very least, with a neutral tone?
your hero pool is flawed, all your heroes are very situational except zen and dva. the rest is barely viable/very map specific. strongly advice you to learn lucio(yes i know another support but a must on koth), winston, zarya, soldier, tracer, genji. you dont have to play all of those but i would learn some of those, especially winston.
bronze LUL im gm and all my posts are my opinions. the truth is most mercy mains really cant play other heroes. theres no otherway around than losing SR or getting an alt account.
Lucio and Tracer are both mentioned, and I do play Winston occasionally, just not enough to include in that grouping.
Wow gm, I'm terribly sorry for misunderstanding. You do have a point, I've seen way too many mercy mains that can only play mercy.  
sorry i didnt see them, but how many hours are we talking about?
I'd tell you, but I'm not near the game to check.

I believe Lucio is 2nd or 3rd most played, and Tracer is somewhere in my top 5.

Question on Gamesense
I've been thinking about how people make decisions during the mid-fight and if people consciously think about what their doing. Like am I thinking about my positioning, abilities, ext in my head during a fight or is it just going off your subconscious? Like I can think about things before the engagement like what ults the enemy has and what we should do in response and planning said engagement. I don't necessarily get tunnel vision but I just don't think about all my decisions in the heat of the moment. Do high level players really do this or am I just overthinking this? Most of it is subconscious. You might consciously think about how you want to play a situation, but lots of the positioning, abilities and stuff like that happens subconsciously for me after playing the game for awhile. 
Like anything, it comes with practice. Most 3500SR+ players have at least 100-200 hours of play time in competitive so that gives plenty of games to practice. 

Once you get mechanically better, muscle memory takes over the little things like AD strafing as DPS, flicking headshots as widow/mccree, 90 or 180degree tracer blinks so that frees up your mind to think about things like what ults do the enemy probably have. And you can do all this while a big fight is going on. 

You start noticing patterns too like if a zarya or rein suddenly starts walking forward a lot, they probably have ult. If the soldier or pharah disappears from a fight and you know nobody died yet, they're probably going to ult. 

Once you master the basics like positioning and mechanical skills, you start doing it naturally leaving you with more mental focus to think about game sense and ult economy. 
I personally dont think all the much during mid-fight, just lock-on on my target and shoot it until either it or me is dead, then switch on other target and repeat. Most thinking come before fight starts, as in what position better to take, or who to focus first, but when the fight already started ill just be absorbed in landing my shots and dodging enemy shots, i play a lot of pharah so often times i have 2-3 shots before im dead if im facing soldier/cree/widow etc, theres not much to think about in that small time-frame, of course you have to memorize key enemy abilities like flashbang, hook, deflect etc, but after certain time playing around them is done subconsciously, as if you and your opponent are taking turns "I engage, he trows bang, i have to dodge that, then i trow my shit and he tries to dodge it, then its a shoot-out for who-ever wins"  
At first its hard. Overtime you development the ability to just know. Its hard to explain. I play lots of hog. I know when gengji rein zarya winston have ult pretty easily based upon movement 

Example:gengji is agressing towards me as hog i know his deflect is up. I need to bait it.

Gengji is going for a flank i know hes been poking quite a bit. If he gets a nano i whole hog him away. If he solo ults i hook and kill. It just becomes a additional sense. Its not something you "look for" its something you feel its second nature. It comes with expirrience.
So, your brain has two separate "systems" for handling input and making decisions. The first is fast, totally automatic, and subconscious. It is responsible for things like identifying the face of someone you know or driving to work on your usual route. The second is conscious and effortful and tires quickly. System 2 is responsible for things like doing your taxes (in the US), deciding on a job offer, basically anything that consciously feels like a decision.

The key here is that System 2 is lazy, has limited resources, and expends a lot of energy when you use it to capacity. This is why you get hungry and tired after doing something that is mentally effortful (e.g. taxes). The way expertise works is basically that you do something enough that the conscious System 2 decisions become patterns that the automatic System 1 can recognize. So, you no longer have to expend conscious effort making those decisions and can take advantage of the parallel processing power of System 1. So instead of consciously thinking "I hear Reaper boots above me, maybe he's gonna drop down and ult on me" you can respond much faster and kill him.

As an example, when you look at this post, you can't help but recognize it as English writing (unless you force yourself to focus on something else), and when you read it, you'll have the perception of just understanding the information on the screen. When you were 3 years old (for your native language), you had to consciously recognize the letters, map them to letter sounds (remembering all the exceptions for letter sounds), string the sounds together to "sound out" the word, and then try to pattern-match the sequence of sounds onto your knowledge of valid words, and then compose those words into an understandable sentence. But now, you have expertise in reading, so all of that happens without your conscious attention.

In conclusion, the things that you consciously think about at a step-by-step level are the things that you're not an "expert" at yet. The more expertise you have (and the more regularizable the activity), the more you can make decisions at a "macro" level and let your automatic brain execute the details, e.g. "drive to work", "sleep-dart-combo Soldier".

Does an "Aim Style Change Calculator" exist? If not - anyone interested in collaborating on this project?
So I'm a console OW player on XB1 and I've always stayed well abreast of changes to the control settings and how aiming in overwatch has changed over time. Given the new improvements to Linear Ramp and my believe that OW will be investing heavily in this aimstyle moving forward, I am looking to change my Dual Zone and Exp. Ramp characters to Linear Ramp. 

None of my characters are still on default settings after having played since the game came out and all five competitive seasons. What I'm wondering is:

Has anyone ever considered developing a site/engine/app that takes your current aim settings on console and tells you what the most comparable settings would be to arrive at the same baseline you're currently playing at in another aim type?

For example, my hitscan chars are all on dual-zone. I want to move them to Linear Ramp. I punch in my settings for the char and it spits out for me what I should start at in Linear Ramp to begin from where I'm currently at - thus not having to reinvent the wheel or create an alternate account because the initial change to "defaults" on Linear Ramp would be so different from my current aim style.

Same for my projectile/"aiming matters less" characters where I use exponential ramp for rapid screen coverage. Plug in my current settings and get output of closest linear ramp settings.

Get it? Do we think this would have value to players - especially those on console?
Wanting to pick up rein
Hi, Im TuckTuckFloof (TTFloof on battle net cause character limits are a thing) and Im a junk main who plays Junk and Lucio very well, I am in the fabulous ELO hell that is platinum currently and I want to learn to play rein as well as my junk and lucio-oh. I understand the concept of rein, which is make space and initiate the fight to my concern (correct me if Im wrong), but it seems that almost every team I have does not want to fall in for a fight when I jump in. So I just die, a lot. I'm wondering if I'm just going in too early or if I just get paired with bad teamates, so that one thing. Also I want to learn more about rein in general, I still am very new to the concept of tanking and reinhardts role, so any advice helps.

Thank you for helping/stopping by
-TuckTuckFloof

Also, if you like overwatch/tf2 Youtube content, I make videos: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCxUuat5d-vsSzIuI11wrOUg?view_as=subscribertbh with you, rein in plat has to little impact because your dps wont use the shield that much and your supports wont be able to keep you up if you play agressive. also rein is hard to play imo and not fit for most people because they lack awarness and dont know when to go in.
There is no elo hell I've climbed out of these lower ranks playing everything under the sun (yes rein included), all solo queue and I'm just ok at this game (low master)
At First you should get that "Elo Hell" shit out of your mind it will drag you down because there is no "Elo Hell" And you will ALWAYS complain after a lose that "it isnt you its the others all the time and the Elo Hell"  And thats just not true so you wont get any better with this Kind of mindset...

If you wanna pick up rein i can only give you a few names of good rein pro's like;
- Reinforce
- Kaiser
- Coco
- Fissure
- Renbot (idk if hes still playing)

Just search on Youtube or twitch for the names and watch what they are doing and why they are doing this you can also go for tournament games (i prefer Apex the Most) in seasons where rein was played constantly



Season 6, why can't I climb?
So I will put things in context, 

I've been in gold every season, my highest sr is 2400 had I'd had more time I would of gotten into plat but a full time job etc means I don't get a whole heap.

Yes before anyone says anything I know I'm trash tier, but this season I was placed in silver which when this happened before takes me less than a few hours to climb out of using reaper,rein or just generally filling what the team needs to make things viable or keep the lesser skilled players alive.

I have 100+ hours on rein, who is my main, but with everyone insta locking dps (when they can't play dps and hit shots) and no healers I have two choices, play mercy and try and keep the horrible aimers in silver alive, or main my rein and die a quick death because we have no heals and horrible dps not getting any kills.

Look I know I'm bad, I'm in no way saying I'm tye best at anything (which is also a bad thing) but I'm becoming worse by filling whats needed and not getting great at anyone one hero limiting my ability to climb (I feel and I could be wrong).

I'm good with dps (whent one game with reaper 56 elims) and we still lost so I can't even carry if I wanted to. 

I'm always in voice chat only speaking when needed with call outs and what not.

Is there any tips to get out of this guys? My diamond friends say just main dps and you will get out, but even when I carry with reaper or junk and get 50+ kills in a game we still lose.

I'm not gonna blame it on the throwers and leavers which for some reason is also happening a bit more tyan usual but its not every game, I know I'm bad but this season I'm stick in silver and can't get out.

TL:DR, stuck in silver after being in gold/2400 and can't get out. Finding myself filling due to every game team is insta locking dps and cant get any kills, leaving me to tank or heal but still going no where. Help please.I ran into this situation when I played in that rank. I was good at DPS, but down there it seemed like everyone insta locked it. I ended up just playing support to get out of there, and ended up actually making it my main. It sounds like you're a good tank as well, so if you can get decent at a healer you'll be a flexible monster who can adapt to any situation, which is a huge benefit at any rank. 

I would recommend getting decent at a support, staying with your main, and playing a DPS if you can get it, and you have healers. If you can get good with Mercy (especially when no one else picks a healer) you can stay alive for quite awhile (especially if youre using GA correctly) and not get targeted in silver. Most DPS don't realize how devastating a good, aggressive Mercy can be in that rank. 


You can always see if you can find a support main in your rank to group up with. That way you'll 100% of the time have a healer in your group, which will allow you to play what you're good at. There are several platforms to find people to group up with out there, and often times support mains are just as frustrated with the lack of DPS, and are always willing to group up with a good DPS, or someone who can protect them. 
1. Play Soldier or Tracer or Winston or Genji.
2. Before each team fight locate the opponents Mercy.
3. During team fight eliminate said mercy. No excuses. Just get it done. If she gets a rez off you have failed and now have the answer as to why you can't climb.
4. ???
5. Profit.
In previous seasons would you consider yourself mostly a DPS player? If you're new to flexing it can take a bit of time for it to balance out before you the same impact as you did in your main role. 

Beyond that all I could say is post a vod. 
You have to realize that not every game is winnable. Climbing is not about having a 100% winrate, but rather having a >50% winrate. If you are an amazing Reaper/Junkrat then just play Reaper/Junkrat. You're always going to climb the fastest with heroes you are actually good at. And you're going to climb even faster than that if you flex and your flex heroes are also heroes you are good at.

Another thing I'd recommend is not to focus on your SR, and also not to focus on winning nor losing. Those imaginary points can easily blind people of their mistakes. It is possible to play like shit and still win, just like it is possible to play like a god and still lose. Analyze every game, win or loss. Analyze each death. Analyze each play. Why did you win? Why did you lose? Why did you die? What could you have done better? Improve yourself, and the SR will come to you.
Same boat. I've been playing 90% support (Mercy, Lucio, Zen) this whole season, with the occasional flex to tank if someone grabs Mercy quick and I have just been getting steamrolled. Like, every game. Sucks

What do you consider your best character? Perhaps you need more practice on Mercy... but she is changing quite a bit... I have had games where everyone was DPS, and I went Mercy and just jumped from one to the next healing as fast as I can and gotten wins. Just need a little bit of luck. Honestly at Silver, most people don't know to target the Mercy first. So if you can hide well, you will get a lot of rez points and offensive assist and perhaps steal some wins. 
You should look into playing Pharah, she's really good in silver. 
I know you say you don't like Zen but I was like you and didn't want to play him. I started trying him out when everyone instalocked DPS on my team as I normally DPS main and he is the closest thing to that but as a support. I quickly realised not only how fun he is, but how ridiculously good he is at low SR! Seriously if you can aim well you can 1v1 most heroes at that level by orbing them straight away and landing a couple of shots. Also there is no better feeling than instantly deleting an enemy squishy with a charged volley as they run around a corner!


I would definitely consider maining him to climb, I have started that this season and am sitting on a 70% winrate in gold with over 3 hours play so far and sitting at my career high! He is amazing!

I'm in the same boat as you just in the 2500 and 2600 range
Why not Roadhog or Zenyatta?
Bind mouse wheel down to "need healing", you will be surprised by the amount of healing you get when you pull back while rolling down mouse wheel.
Group up with a support and/or tank main.  It's important that whoever this is, that they actually ENJOY that role and aren't just doing it when they secretly want to play DPS.  The benefit is that if you're queueing with a support and/or tank player you'll be able to play DPS more often.
I was Placed at 2400. Season 5 at 2550. 
I filled if it was necessary (2/2/2 Composition is the best in my opinion). Otherwise I pick Reaper who is my Main. I Played very well every Game and 13 Games later im back at 2550. Just Play very well every Game and you will Go up in Rank
Not sure if everyone does this, but one thing I *think* that's helped me win some games...

I'm always in hero selection first (SSD I guess)... so, I'll insta-lock who I feel like playing. Lets say for this case, Soldier.

Then I'll look at my teammates profiles and switch as needed. If there's a Soldier main, I'll happily offer Soldier up and play whatever. If my team has 3 support mains, I'll stick with the DPS.

It's one way that YOU can have a direct affect in helping your team have an ideal comp for each individual.

Sometimes you'll just notice someone isn't playing their hero and didn't speak up about it. But by looking at their profile you'll see they are damn good at something in particular, by looking you're now in a position to take advantage of their skills.
The bad thing about hip hop? Wack MC's. The problem with OW? Shitty DPS. Also, people confuse 'damage per second' and 'flankers'. 4 defense heroes is not 'plenty of DPS'. This season, seems like 1 out of 10 people has a mic, so there are no callouts and no ult combos except by accident. I like to play Reinhardt alot too, but I never play him because there's usually no one shooting from behind the shield. Without at least 2 shooters like 76, Mcree, Zen you can't get value from the shield. If they don't group up, you can't get value from the shield.
Because you're not winning. Next question. I suggest making it related to "how do I win more?" But specific.
Why? That's simple. Down here most players are selfish pricks who think they're too MLG Pro to heal or shield tank and think they're god tier DPS, or in other cases little assholes who act like children and throw games  because the team wouldn't work around their Attack Sym/Defense Sombra/Mei pick...
I will try this thank you
Can't wait for the no more hiding mercy :D
Honestly I'm mostly a tank player. Rein and dva but can play dps well not great but well enough as I say I can easy go 40-50+ kills in a game as reaper 40+ with junk and mcree 46 is my highest game with mcree so far.

I'm an ok mercy, I know when to db and when to heal and can multi task around the team. I'm hopeless with lucio, just ok with zen. Problem in silver that I'm having as a filler is staying alive long enough in the support/tank roles due to our team insta locking dps and being utter trash with their aim or getting kills and not switching off. So as mercy I'm dead, as rein I'm de shielded and dead, as dva I'm de tanked very quickly and dead, becuse if I dont tank we dont have one, and of i dont heal we dont have one. Everyone just insta locks dps.

I just cant seem to break free of this. Heck with dva I can go 60 elims even (they are mostly finishers to the enemy team heros our dps has missed) I climbed to 2400 as dva, mained the crap outnof her last season, but my teams has some idea. This season its just a huge influx of new players, sadly I feel locked in silver due to this being a "team game".

I'm honestly considering buying a new account at this point, I won 5 of my 10 placements and got put on silver, last season I won 3 of 10 and got put back in gold. So I have no idea whats up with the mmr.
Yeh thats very true, maybe I should hide a little better with her and get used to how long her healing beam is so I'm not always in the mix of things when we're getting flanked etc and end up dying. As I say I'm far from awesome but am ok with mercy as mentioned in my above post, but if I have to heal again (I know I will haha) i will start hiding more. Great advice. 

Then to understand how to play her again with the insane changes coming will be fun.
Seconded, he got me into diamond this season. Good flankers are getting hard to deal with but he's still very effective.
I mained roadhog for a while a few seasons ago and he was great, i always switched between him and rein. After all his major changes (not including the hook nerf as I could aim) i found him utterly useless. Now in his current form I just find him an ult feeder for the enemy team and a ult battery that gets slept by anna, flashed by mcree, booped by lucio etc, sure he's fantastic at staying alive, but go ahead and hook a full health mcree, get flash banged and fanned he gets away his ult is fed heavily off you and you just role around healing but getting no kills. In my opinion he is utterly useless.

Zen is great and I should learn him, problem is I just dont like him haha. But in all seriousness I should learn him a bit more he is very us,efull with debuff, dnamge and healing and being able to push points with his ult.
The term DPS doesn't really mean damage per second anymore, it's just used to refer to any character that mainly deals damage and nothing else. Hanzo might not have high dps but burst damage is often more effective than overall dps anyways.
I'd been plat for seasons 3 and 4 but something seems to have happened since season 5 and I dropped to low silver mid season.

the sheer number of trolls and leavers made it impossible to have any sort of impact. I know ppl will say the other team will be affected as well overall but in a normal distribution there are outliers. I seem to have gotten on the wrong end.

I ended up buying another account and got placed low diamond mid season 5. did my placements for season 6 and got mid diamond. Elo hell is very real for some ppl, like quicksand once you're in it's difficult to climb back out. also ... EU servers are horrible
After Dva's changes idk how she's going to be but currently monkey can put in a lot of work from the tank slot as can hog and Zarya. Dva in her current state is balanced around being a protector(because her DM is so powerful the rest of her kit is comparatively weak offensively). 

I like hog since his changes but it also increased his skill floor. You really have to be good at using his full kit now as opposed to when you just had to be good at using hook. If he interests you try learning how to right click+hook+left click combo enemies. 

Zarya I could see doing well because of people providing her charge but her ult is team based so maybe not. 

Monkey is great and he can kill 200 HP heroes in 2 seconds with leap+melee+taser. He's also good against teams with small health pools and few tanks so I could see him doing well at lower ranks where everyone wants to DPS. Just remember he's bad against anything that has armor and avoid Reaper/hog. 

Support wise. Zen, mercy, and Lucio are your best options. I'm kind of a Lucio main and play really aggressively. You can't out heal bad aim, but you might look at their profiles before game and see who has a good combination of win percent and time played. If you're Mercy/Zen this could tell you which team mates to prioritize. 

Zen can also frag out at times. Corner peek with charged right clicks and then when a real fight starts use left click. And stay at a good range so enemies have trouble shooting back at you since you have no damage fall off. 

If you're Mercy and your team only has 1 tank prioritize them with your resurrect. Solo tank teams tend to fall apart if the tank goes down. If you have multiple allies all low HP or maybe some dead allies and one low it might just be best to let them die so you can rez them since that will instantly restore them to full HP for you. And try to look at what allies have ults. If they died with their ult and the ult could win the fight rez them. Small tempo rezzes are extremely powerful. 
I've climbed out of that Elo to Plat (take that for what little that is worth), and in my opinion Zen is the ultimate climbing machine out of Silver. Learn to lead your shots and you'll eventually get the hang of them, get your team to focus your discords (get in comms and call your discords it really, really works I promise), and learn to deal with pesky flankers like Tracer and Genji (charge shots are your friend). At that Elo you can absolutely out-dps your actual dps, keep your team healed, pull clutch ults to keep them alive in Gravs or from Genji ults, and carry yourself out of there. If you don't find him fun now, that's fair, but I thinks he's super fun to play because you have to be aware of so many things around you all at once (harmony, discord, positioning, enemy ult management, etc). Give him a real decent try and see how you go. 
Zen is fantastic because you can heal and still carry like you could with a dps hero. At the lower levels people's aim sucks so healing over time is even better than it is at higher tiers because people don't get bursted through the healing as much. If you can aim well with him he's a carry machine.

If you don't enjoy his playstyle don't bother, but I'd give him another chance to see if he grows on you. I placed at 3145 this season maining him which is a career high for me.
Yeah, nail on the head. Also people confuse 'eliminations' with 'kills'. In the old days of FPShooters, only the person who got the final blow would get get credit. A junkrat spamming trash or splash damage may have gold elims, so he'll think he's carrying, and can ignore all the support ults he's been feeding, and someone else may have far more kill shots but fewer elims because they only hit one hero at a time. The trash damage card has been removed in favor of hero damage for this reason.
In a normal distribution there are no outliers.
The new deathmatch mode is so great for learning how to deal with flankers as Zen. Getting killed by tracers and genjis was always my weak point with him, so a mode where you are constantly fighting tracers and genjis is amazing practice.
from a strict technical pov no, but from a practical pov anything outside a certain number of standard deviations can be considered an outlier
99.5% of all observations are within 3 standard deviations in a normal
well shit ... i must be one of the unlucky 0.5%-ers then, assuming the distribution is normal

no biggie, new account and back wehre I think I should be

Are there any video settings (besides resolution) that help with being able to discern faraway objects/heroes?
/title 

Recently I turned my settings down from Ultra/Medium to High/Medium. While I'm maintaining my desired 150FPS more easily, it feels like I'm having a harder time making out things in the distance. I'm thinking I might revert one or two of my settings to Ultra if it helps me see things far away. Texture filtering should do it, and it's got a fairly low impact. Texture quality too, which should have a low impact if you're not near vram capacity
Bigger monitor and/or higher resolution. Or sitting closer to your monitor.
100% render scale/texture quality high 
You could always lower your FOV. It makes stuff further away bigger if you lower it.

Revisiting a classic problem: how to deal with Symmetra?
So, Overwatch has been out for more than a year now, and boy has our understanding of the game evolved.  When the game was released, Symmetra defenses were a big problem for me, despite their reputation as an easily-counterable "no-skill" comp.  The answer that was prescribed back then was to use Pharah and Winston, to take out the turrets, but I still saw little success.  I figure it was just my implementation of those strategies, rather than the strategy itself.

Well, now I've substantially improved(I dipped my toes into Diamond in season four, but didn't stay for long), but I still struggle against a Symmetra defense.  I can't do anything at all if there are turrets nearby, because I need to devote all of my attention to destroying them.  If I ignore the turrets and focus on the real players, then the turrets will soften me up so much that I'm easy pickings for whoever I'm trying to kill.  If I focus on destroying the turret, that's a good 3 seconds where I'm just spinning around looking for the turret while the enemy team kills me.

If all of the turrets are in one big group, then it's not quite as bad; we can just avoid whichever door all of her turrets are focused on, and then destroy them all at once with some splash damage.  But, before we can find out which door that is, one of us needs to walk through and get insta-killed by them.

If the turrets are spread evenly across the map, then it's not so simple.  No matter how many turrets you destroy, there's always another one around the corner, waiting to divert your attention.

Whenever I try the "recommended" counter, Pharah, I try to sneakily get behind the enemy and dismantle the turrets from a distance.  When I do that, though, the enemy team turns around and focuses me down immediately, and the Sym just rebuilds her turrets, leaving me looking like an out-of-position idiot.

Even if there are no turrets to worry about, getting locked onto by Sym herself is a death sentence for any of the squishies on my team.  Her shield stops the victim from fighting back on their own, and every time I try to intervene I get peeled by one of their tanks.

This problem is a little bit embarassing for me, because she's supposedly so easy to deal with that for a time picking her was considered throwing.  Well, now I'm swallowing my pride and asking for help.  I don't have any videos to post right now, since it's rare that I ever remember to record when I see a symmetra on the enemy team.  Then next time I get the chance, I'll record one.There are ways to counter symmetra:


Winston: Winton's auto aim and extra hp almost always makes him win the 1v1 against a symmetra. Winston takes longer to kill, wipes out all her turrets easily and even has a barrier. Symmetra can't abuse his large hitbox. Winston can jump away if he gets low.


Pharah: Splash damage to take out turrets, Flanking from behind, High ranged damage. Symmetra shouldn't be able to touch Pharah while Pharah can blow her up.


Zarya: Her rmb splashes turrets, bubbles provide her high energy and extra hp. Takes some tracking aim to kill symmetra.


Outnumbering her: If she uses her microwave gun on one person, the others should take her down easily and quickly.


Outskilling her: If you have good aim, landing headshots, and using your abilities to your advantage would help you outskill her in a 1v1 and win.


If you're using a flanker to take out her turrets, don't stay in one place. For example if symmetra turrets are on the eichenwalde bridge, I flank over the broken building from spawn, shoot the bridge, touch the point to attract attention, then move away. This pulls the defence away for your team to push in, while not giving them numbers advantage.
>So, Overwatch has been out for more than a year now, and boy has our understanding of the game evolved.

Ha!

Don't worry, there is a loooooooooong way to go yet.

Here's the bad news:  A good symmetra pretty much *should* beat you in uncoordinated solo queue, just like a Zen that discords well is a living terror, Lucio-enabled charges are terrifying, and tanks with Ana shooting them just refuse to die.  The strength of supports, after all, is that their impact is magnified around the rest of their team.

This is because Symmetra's schtick is not turrets, or orbs, or shield generators, or auto-aim, but *order*.  Symmetra's kit is geared around stopping bullshit, and profiting therefrom.  What is bullshit, you ask?  A Genji jumping around harassing your Mercy while everyone ignores it.  A McCree hanging out near your spawn and killing every third person who comes out.  Symmetra is autistic and needs things to be organized, and damn it if you try and fuck up her plan, you're gonna wander into some turrets.

There are two ways to beat Sym.  The first is by undoing her efforts and creating disorder on her team.  Winston, Junkrat, and Pharah are all great at this.  Why?  Because they fuck things up.  They disrupt.  They do trash damage.  No one makes Sym players rage more than these three, because while she's carefully architecting your team's demise, you're just throwing around explosives and lightning like a noob, and yet you're messing up her plan.

The other way to beat Sym is for your team to be ordered themselves.  Things like having a Widow way in the back, unmolested, or a bunch of tanks that all attack at once.  Basically, playing how they should, instead of how they do.

Pick up Sym yourself.  You'll start to understand.
I don't have much to add to what u/includesmart said, except that EMP disables turrets and could help if the point was all turreted. (But, picking a counter based only on ult seems iffy, even if it is a fast-charging one.)

I do want to say that I really admire the way you're handling the totally unhelpful responses (and somewhat condescending) you're getting. A+. Way to defend this space as a serious educational forum. 😊
In a 1v1 situation as McCree, throw out a melee to bait out her shield, then roll past, flash, kill. Not sure about other heroes.

That's about all I got.
As a GM Symm main, I have never found Winston or Pharah to be a problem. She's not actually easy to deal with, as people say, unless the player is a bad Symm.

The only true counter to Symm, in my experience, is a great Tracer who goes onto point alone and destroys all the turrets (and can blink in + pulse bomb teleporter or shield gen).
There are several good counter heroes, but the best advice I can give is to team up and aggressively dive the sym together. She really cannot handle multiple targets well if you focus her.
As a Symmetra semi-main (I play a lot of Zen with Sym on 2CP and Hybrid Defense), there are a few things that really ruin my day.

Winston: Bubble blocks my beam, and he out-damages me before I can get full charge because his health pool is twice as big as mine. His AoE gun kills my turrets by looking in their general direction.

Pharah: I can't reach her, splash damage kills my turrets and keeps my personal shield health from regenerating, and I can't dodge rockets easily.

Tracer: a good Tracer stays just out of reach of my Beam and headshots me. The horizontal Pharah. She can also blink into a death room, kill turrets, and Recall just before she dies.

Junkrat: not as much of a pain to deal with as Pharah, but the splash damage is still rough.

Mei: She freezes me faster than I can melt her. Her walls and ice block are great to charge my Beam, but if she freezes me I'm done. Her ice spray kills turrets about as easily as Winston.

Reaper: only with a pre-charged beam can I 1v1 a Reaper and win, and that's usually only when Wraith is on cooldown. 
The best & easiest way to counter sym is just pick a D.VA.

Why so? That's because D.VA got a large health poll which is a big counter for sym as she cant melt her like she does to other squishies, and d.va gun is excellent at sym's range which is close-range so she can pretty much win a 1v1 easily against a sym if you know how to aim. D.VA can always escape sym by flying if sym gets backed and got the upper hand so she won't get melted.

She can also clean turrets pretty effectively and spam the balls sym is throwing at your team. And the final thing is, she's great for countering her ult as she's got high mobility to find the shield gen/tele and kill it with her powerful guns. If the room is protect with turrets she can clean them instantly and if the room is really heavily guarded she can just ult the tele/shield and sym won't be able to do anything.

So that's why, in my opinion, she's the best counter. There are other counters which can do the work but less good like Winston that can zone sym pretty nicely but sadly is awful for killing her tp/shield as it got a very high health points and winston gun isn't the best at killing it. Also in the DPS category you can pick Pharah for that great combat potential against sym as she can't catch you in the air, but if sym playing defensive it will be a bit hard for pharah and also she's again not the best counter to her ult, but still better than others.

Other characters in the category which can do an okay job against a sym is Tracer due to the high mobillity to dodge sym's beam, spray her, and find the shield gen/tele and if its heavily guarded just ult it and recall. And Sombra can sneak around behind enemy lines and find the ult as well, but you must think if EMP is worth it to destroy the shield gen/tele. I'd say its often not unless the sym is extremely good and your team's main problem.
Ill give some thoughts as a sym main.

There have been some very good points made already but here go's.

Assuming same skill lvl, I cant 1v1 the following without getting the drop on them : winston, zarya, phara... phara is a cunt to deal with. But as far as 1v1 match ups go, doomfist, i fucking hate doomfist, i hate him so much i wont play him. The little bit of shield he gets means i cant kill him with out reloading, give doomfuck that much time he will kill you. Now if i have shield gen up i am confident in taking any 1v1 with an air of caution with DF.

Now obviously a 1v1 with conditions not suiting me eg widow at range, phara at range, any ranged character are something ill loose or run away from.

But the thing i need most to be effective is a team. If i get a team that cant stay alive im no use. Quite often i can change this with the shield gen giving me the team i need to be effective. I can 1v1 anyone just about 1v2 is hard unless im charged up and 1v3+ isnt going to happen. I play back lines and hold chokes. I push foward more aggressive if your all distracted with fights already. A lot of what i do is throwing a cat amongst the pigeons, if the dps can quite put the other team down ill theow out a shield and head for the squishys, once im done the team has won the fight. 

I cant take a team by my self, a winston with a mercy pocket healing is my worst match up. Its a team game, either fight me with your team or take away my team.
Play Symmetra yourself and record your matches:

* If you loose as symmetra to a winston, what did the winston do? How can you do it yourself? Same as pharah.
* Next time you'll play winston/pharah and meet a Symmetra, you'll know what they think and what a symmetra is "scared of"
adding a tip for a 1v1 vs sym: don't walk backwards (she does the same amount of damage at any distance with her beam) and dont jump aroud or strafe (it wont help against lock on beam and only hinder your ability to aim), focus yourself and your aim and you can kill her. If she deploys the shield in particular, walk towards it to minimize its usefulness and continue shooting at her.
I have over 40 hours on Symmetra and I think 2 of the biggest counters for her turrets are winston and dva. I hate playing against winston sometimes because he always destroys my turrets as soon as he jumps in. Also it seems he will always win against Symmetra unless somehow a couple of her turrets managed to stay up or a teammate jumps in and helps. I am also a dva main and as soon as I'm playing against a Symmetra with a bunch of turrets I get behind and shoot them. Dva is helpful because she has a lot of health, she can fly back when she takes enough damage, and also her burst guns are good at destroying multiple turrets. Not to mention it has been times I've played as Symmetra and dva will send her bomb in killing all my turrets and possibly killing teammates in the backlines.
I think the best counter is Junkrat. Here's a less-known tip that might change everything for you. Her turrets will shoot at your traps and mines. If you ever want to know if a door is trapped, just throw a trap or a mine through it. 


Other ways that Junkrat craps all over Symmetra include:

- delivers nearly instantaneous lethal damage, all you need to do is hit one grenade and throw an accurate mine.

- the option to mine jump away from her

- his passive kills more symmetras than any other hero. Symmetra players have to run straight at you, so take advantage of that. If she's about to kill you, just run at her. Then she gets blown up.

- Junkrat can blow up her shield gen and/or teleporter from some surprisingly distant and safe spots if you plan ahead and practice a little bit beforehand. e.g. on Temple of Anubis. 

- The opponent might try to block that with barriers, but Junkrat's ult is great against her too. I think Junkrat is the only hero who almost never should have to worry about shield gens. 
Pick Winston, and don't overextend. Either kill Symm or the turrets first, then jump out if you're low. Your jump pack cools down faster than her 6 turrets. Heal up and engage again. rinse. repeat.

edit: also jump high when you dive in to minimise your jump pack cool down
I always use Mei if she is trashing my team. I icicle outside of her beam range until she's forced to shield, and then run through it and freeze her. She isn't difficult if you see her first. She's hella quiet though. It doesn't help in deathmatch that she can actually spawn camp you with turrets. 
Winston is the best counter,  Also remember you can take out turret rooms with Mecree's flashbang.
Zarya's probably the cleanest counter. The bubble lets you build charge, dodge the slow, and gives you time to clear the turrets. Both primary and secondary fire are great for clearing them because primary's hitscan and can be swept across the lot and secondary's an AOE effect.
I can't say much for the turrets, but the most important thing in a 1v1 situation is to not panic. If syms weapon doesn't have charge, she isn't as scary as you think she is. It is hard to escape her beam, because it increases its range as soon as it locks on. As a support you have the same options as you would have against other close range threats (exept mabe lucio, because syms beam doesn't care about jumping frogs). Ana can sleep, mercy can fly away, zen can discord+headshot+bodyshot. 

As a DPS you should win every duel with sym, if she doesn't catch you off guard. Most sym players think they have the upper hand in a 1v1, so baiting the into a duel is qute easy. If your aim isn't complete trash you should he able to burst her down no problem. Long story short: if you see the sym coming for you without backup from her team, she is basicly dead. 
I like to helix rocket the ground to make sym fly in the air.  Easy tracking after that 
It's going to sound a little counter-intuitive but I've found that holding still and taking my time with my shots works well against Sym. It's absolutely situationally dependent, as holding still in this game is normally a death sentence. However, in Sym's case what I usually see is they lock on to you and start hopping around. Since it feels instinctual to also hop around you wind up severely reducing your accuracy which ultimately plays into her hands. If it's just us two, I'll do my best to out damage her through aim. Hope this helps man! Good luck out there
discord + mcree and she is 2 shots away from death 
A good mcree can stop her in her tracks in a 1v1.
A Winston can take out turrets hilariously easy.
Mei can kill turrets and duel her.
A good tracer can duel her.
Pharah sends her justice alongside her regards.
If you are a really good widow or hanzo really good then you can one shot her from a long range.

Personally I pick cree, hog, Winston to counter a symmetra.
I love the new hog! 
pharah is a pretty easy counter, she cant place her lasers in the air and your blast radius of rockets takes care of her lasers, winston with his tesla canon takes care of symmetra turrets as well,mei is another pick i havent really tried but heard that she can deal with symm pretty easily
Unless she gets the drop on me I can take her out with Reaper. The issue is her turrets but more often than not she's not with them anyway and you can just phase away.
I am a flex player and in the latest season I have the highest time so far on symmetra. 
I think the best counter to a symmetra is a decent tracer. I have found that I have been successfully able to finish off a symmetra from full health only with Winston and Tracer. 

Even on winston its a hit or miss with around a 50% chance - depending on who locks onto whom first. I have killed winstons with symmetra beam without any support. 

I have easily and multiple times killed symmetra as a tracer though and that is why I recommend her. She can blink it - shoot symmetra and blink or recall out of range. Or even better - stay out of symmetra range and shoot her. 

Rhien is another good symmetra killer since they both operate at around the same range. 
I would say the recommended counter is Winston. 
Still waiting for sym nerfs. Bitch has been busted since the rework. 
Tracer. 
Turrets: Winston, Mei, Pharah, Junkrat

1v1: Mei, Junkrat, Pharah, Reaper
one word: Distance.
As a Symmetra main: shoot her until she dies. 
Generally attentive tanks does the trick
[removed]
[deleted]
Mei: Say goodbye to all the turrets, teleporter is walled up to the ceiling, strong 1v1, cryofreeze if you are losing the 1v1 or to wait when Symm uses the barrier.
I'm a Symmetra main, about 40 hours with her. Winston is by far my biggest problem, followed up by pharah. Splash damage her with pharah and with winston throw that shield up and don't be afraid to get up in her face. 

EDIT: I'm in Gold/Plat so maybe that doesn't work at higher levels
Sombra: (warning, must already have experience at sombra, otherwise you'll be useless at everything other than shutting down symmetra)

* if TP/SG is hidden away, sneak behind and 1-clip it
* if TP/SG is heavily protected, EMP and spray for a moment to instakill it
* invis to get an angle on turrets
* EMP knocks off 50% of symm's HP as well
Mcree deals with her pretty well, body shot flash headshot and its done. You have to just walk forward past the shield and go agro you cant just let the shield beat you.
Lucio's boop is great at taking out a clustered group of turrets
Zen: I've found rarely am I up at the front line with the tanks and his alternate fire lets you easily burst Sym down if you can see her coming. As a bonus you can charge it up, pass through her shield and then fire. If you miss your dead if she has you singled out though.
I hear that the start of Winston's jump-pack leap does a small amount of damage and can take out nearby turrets (which have only 1 health) without needing to turn around. Haven't mastered this technique yet tho.
> Symmetra is autistic and needs things to be organized,

So her hard counters are public speaking and eye contact?
As a mccree main, symmetra is no problem (person wise). A cocky sym will waltz up to me and try to use that op 3 second kill beam of death. I just flash bang right click.  No more sym. Turrets are a bit harder, but if I'm one area, flashbang counters them hard. 
Could you please elaborate about how you deal with a Pharah? I agree that she can win against Winston, especially if the Sym player has good aim with her alternate fire. 

But against Pharrah, I haven't figured out how to deal with her so I just stay away.

I agree Tracer is a pain in thr ass. But at least I feel like I can fight back. 
This is a great idea!  I'll definitely try that!
This one is my favorite!  Thanks!
Can confirm, in many of my games, when we are attacking (especially on nubani) there is usually a sym that halts entire pushes because no one knew how to deal with her. So I tried a crazy idea and went junkrat. 

I went infront of my team as the enemy was holding the top entrance close to the door so great spam damage to be done. The sym was right infront of her tanks (bad positioning on her part) and she locked on to me. Usually I would panic and desparately shoot at her hoping to kill her. With junkrat though, even with her little shield she produced, I quickly 2-shoted her and proceeded to assaut the tanks and squishies. By this point, my team had realized I had killed our main problem and dove in to help me quickly finish off the rest of them where we proceded to get an easy cap.

Junkrat works by himself, however having a monkey with you helps much as he can go in before you, drop his shield, and proceed to take out the death turrets.
> also jump high when you dive in to minimise your jump pack cool down

pls don't. if they have a OKish hitscan you are at half health on landing.
Winning a Mei 1v1 as Symmetra is *extraordinarily* difficult since Mei has far better ranged abilities than Sym and can outfreeze the microwave.
Maybe against the turrets - but definitely not against symmetra herself. I enjoy melting zarya's as soon as their bubble pops. 

I play both zarya and symmetra. If a symmetra is attacking you - your best best is to lob energy bombs at her feet and hope those kill her before you die.  Dont use your primary fire.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wnUahuZoeW0
I'm going to need more than one-word answers, here.  If I've learned anything in my Overwatch career, it's that hero picks alone don't automatically solve problems.  How should I be *using* Winston to counter symmetra?
But what should they be doing to help?  I need specifics.  Flipping it the other way around: if someone were to ask *me* to help with Symmetra, I wouldn't know how.  I imagine everyone else on my team is the same way, hence why I'm asking here. 
Does the wall thing kill the tp? 
Diamond Winston/Zarya main here. When I play Winston I find there's nothing the sym can really do against me. The moment the team spots one I make sure everyone knows to let me take the lead, and only go in once I get the turrets.
It works very well at higher levels too.
EMP knocks the tp/shield gen to 50hp (i think) too
and for booping away sym from a teammate who is being microwaved.
Winston does damage on landing yes. 
Correct me if I'm wrong, but the Winston super-jump (jump then use Shift right before you reach the ground) will deal his Shift damage at the beginning rather than the end like normal. Perhaps that is what you were referring to?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NaAW1nu4y1I
I believe it does 1 point of damage.
That's a very, very general and borderline offensive comment. 

Autism manifests in many ways. It is quite unlike what movies and tv portrays. 
Sure, but good Symmetras don't care whether they live or die.  The thing they're most concerned with is maintaining the integrity of their team as a unit.

If they're playing Sym as Budget Reaper, you've already won.  Where things get problematic is when turrets are set up *and* the teleporter/shield gen is up.  Suddenly all your teammates are losing 1v1s, or winning them only to have the guy they killed 8 seconds ago teleport right back.
a *good* symmetra will walk up to you and throw a shield into your flashbang.
With Pharah, I place turrets as high up as possible (and never clumped together) to constantly harass her. I also wait for her Ult and am ready to shoot a photon barrier to block it and kill her with the splashback from her own rockets.
Hahaha yeah and she can trash turrets from range or nearby.
that's what I usually do, and since I'm Zarya, I make sure to fight around teammates who can help me dps the sym
[removed]
Pick Winston, ask someone on your team to pick up D.VA or Zarya and shield you while you clear the turrets. If you jump+melee onto her, you can kill sym in ~2 seconds.
Winston leaps into the sym with an orb puts down barrier takes out turrets, shield breaks and you jump back out.
With cree you go past her shield you flash her and headshot her.
Tracer is good if the tracer is good. Take out turrets, hp low just recall, stay out of beam range and aim correctly. Bomb her ult.
Hog just hooks her and voila. He can also walk into her turrets and destroy them with primary fire. His new e gives a lot to of tankiness. 
It doesn't, but you can stagger the enemies coming from the spawn and you have a slight chance to split them right out of the TP (haven't tested in the recent patch)
Nah it just moves it
Yep!
On takeoff too a little bit I think 
It does damage on takeoff as well
No, he does 1 damage at the start of a normal jump. Try it out on the Practice Range.
Don't know why you got downvoted. This is true.
Welcome to reddit, we make jokes here. 
I mean, it is definitely true that those with autism will have trouble interacting with others; that's one of the main symptoms of the disorder in the first place.
Maybe, but a **good** mccree will time it right. 
it's always fun when you catch her unaware and floating downwards and are able to lock on and zorch her, too.
If you don't want to provide any actual help, please go to a different subreddit.
only with a super jump, which is a hard skill to master as it requires near frame-perfect timing.
With a super jump, yes. 
Welcome to life, where shit gets called out. 
Ain't funny. 
It's simple maths: Winston's health > Symmetra's health

Literally just left click her to death. She can't kill you in a 1v1.
[removed]
Super jump takes the landing damage and applies it at the start of the jump. Im fairly certain a non-super jump (normal jump) does 1 damage at the start of the jump
As someone with a very similar condition (medically diagnosed), I chuckled.

Sometimes, being able to laugh at yourself is the best thing, and it wasn't a particularly rude joke.  Won't say that everyone would appreciate it, but sometimes I feel like people are a bit overprotective.  Well-meaning, but a bit overzealous. 
There's more to it than that, because if I just waltz in as Winston, I get melted before I can do anything.  Obviously, there's a right time to go in and a right person to focus, but I don't know what those are. 
You've clearly never fought a symmetra
Fuck off
It has been a struggle, for me anyways, to try and communicate what it is I'm going through. So when a reductionist "joke" comes along, it breaks my heart. 

There's already a stigma around mental health issues, and joking about it, at this time, does not help in any way. 
Push with your team obviously. Communicate. You're acting like you need your hand held when most of this is just talking to your team.
You need two tanks, Winston getting Zarya bubble helps, or d.va matrix so he isn't melted by the team. Rein can shield while Winston gets turrets, or while Mei gets turrets, and then gets quickly healed back up.


Or rein shielding while Zarya gets turrets.


Best scenario is to take a diff path, but not always possible.
Do it daily, usually as Zen though.
Comedy helps in nearly every instance. You can choose to take offense to it and get upset, or you can choose to understand that it is humor and nothing more. If you can't laugh at yourself, you're trying too hard. 
I'm sorry mate.  It's a bit of a rough ride, no matter how you look at it.  For what it may be worth, mine is Tourettes, specifically with tics.  I have some OCD elements as well which means it *hurts* physically and mentally if I try to fight my tics, in addition to stressing me out.  This is in addition to secondary issues such minor ADD, 'brain fog' (inflammation in the brain), and coordination issues.

So if you'll accept a friendly comment from someone who's had to struggle with similar crap?  

So much of what we go through is bull, ranging from the obvious problems to the little things.  Some are unique to you, some to the condition, some are shared with most everyone.  There's only so much of this we can change.  Our time and resources are limited.  

The most miserable points of my own life are when I took everything seriously and personally.  I stigmatized myself far more harshly than anyone else ever did.  I have a naturally calm temperament that I've always been proud of -- but suddenly I was turning into an emotional wreck.

If you look for the bad in life, you'll find it every time, but I think maybe you'll be happier if you look for the good.  There's always a light at the end of the tunnel, even though sometimes it sure doesn't  feel like it.

Take care, and God bless mate.
Thanks for explaining how jokes work!
This is the nicest thing anyone has ever said on the internet, I'm sure. 

What set me off was I just wanted to read a post about my favourite game. Specifically about my favourite character, and maybe, just maybe, not think about my mental health. But no. 9/10 times I'll ignore it, it is Reddit after all. For some reason this time it got to me. 

I understand that the jokes were lighthearted,  and not intentionally malicious. Seeing what makes up a large part of you (for better or worse) casually thrown away in a snide comment hurts. Don't want it to, still does. 

People who don't have these issues will never understand. It's like telling a depressed person to just be happy.

Thanks for sharing GeoPaladin, and trying to understand. Your friends are lucky to have you, if anything you said was sincere. (Again, Reddit)
Jesus you do have autism... 
Well, thanks.  Truth to tell the vast majority of friendships I have are pretty one-sided. :/

Here's hoping for the best for you, mate.  I certainly get the bit about people not understanding.  (Frankly, sometimes I wonder how much I understand myself, and I have the stupid thing.)

Struggling to win 1v1's against Hanzo as Widow
I'd consider myself a pretty decent widow, not the best but not the worst with about 100 hours on her.

But seemingly every time I get into a sniper battle with a decent hanzo at range I seem to always lose. It gets so bad I think it affects my mental game too so whenever I come into a fight with a hanzo I already feel like I will lose it, causing me to lose more and more fights. Any tips for helping would be great. It feels like I'm banging my head against a wall and not getting any better.At mid-range, a decent Hanzo will usually beat a decent Widow. Hanzo loses a lot of his effectiveness at longer ranges, so I'd try to engage from further away or put some distance between you two. 
Yeah he's a real pain. I find his head hitbox to be one of the most difficult ones to hit, but his heatseeking telephone poles have no issue finding mine.

The best rule I've come up with is "Never take a fair fight with a Hanzo". Always engage when he's busy or your position is surprising. If he's looking at you - or worse, if he has your position tagged with a wallhack arrow - don't even peek it. Just walk away and reposition.
hanzo only wins if 

A you never switch up your spots

B you stand completely still so he can hit you easily
Make distance. His arrow time and having to aim up gives you an advantage. 
Also: try to think about the time it takes to charge his bow. Try to time your shots between his charges, if you can. 
Widow will most likely prevail at longer ranges, but be careful for his sonic arrow when peeking.
Hanzo is extremely good at close/medium range. He can oneshot you with scatter.
So just try to keep your distance and stay out of range of his sonic arrow and you will most likely kill him.
Only fight him across the map or when he is not looking at you. If he starts pre-firing at a spot you have to stand, just move. Don't try to keep peeking, it's not worth it. Or go for a hook shot if you can.   
  
Most of the time I die to a Hanzo, it's because I kept trying to peek when I thought his arrow wasn't going to be there, and then it was, or I walked into the hitbox. And when playing as Hanzo, when I kill a Widow, it usually feels like because she walked into my arrow or was standing still in the open. 
Hanzo beats widow at short to medium range. Especially if he has sonic/scatter up. Try to fight at long range, or take high ground above him. It's hard to aim up as Hanzo. 
For Medium-Close range focus on avoiding and use your spider mine. With the reduced cooldown on your grapple you can look at throwing down the spidermine and when it goes off grappling out it will give you the same benefit as his sonic and the slow + poison tends to make it harder for him to aim.
Dont 1v1 him unless youre far away
I main hanzo.

Easiest way to kill widow, dodge dodge, use my vision to scope a headshot before I show myself. Etc if you're facing a hanzo make sure you do not stand still once you see him targeting you. Or use wall hacks!
As a guy who plays a lot of Hanzo I'd say back off and stop trying to snipe duel him.  When sonic arrow is off cooldown Widowmaker is one of the easiest classes to duel as a Hanzo with anything approaching decent aim.  You wouldn't duel a Widowmaker that had her ult rolling, don't duel a Hanzo if his sonic arrow could be/would be up.
The only way I've been able to do it successfully is to primary fire at him that usually causes some panic time at which I'll strafe fire and then set up a shot from there via flick. It allows me time to set up a shot while watching him kinda move around first. At long range I'll take a pop shot at him to cause him to react, then go for the snipe. 
C. He pre shot and kills you before you saw him.
Yeah good point, but I find that the decent hanzos charge behind a wall and peek for the smallest amount of time possible. I just need to adjust more 
Scatter!
simpel goemetree

Monday Mentoring Megathread - 2017, Thread #21

#*"The World Could Always Use More Heroes!"*

Welcome to the weekly Professor/Student Megathread. Make sure to read the whole post.

This thread was supposed to launch this weekend but due to a growing demand we decided to post it now. Every Monday a new thread will be posted.

[Modmail us](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FOverwatchUniversity) with your experiences through this process, both students and professors. With your help we can keep refining the concept along the way.

---

##**Professors**: Comment on the thread using the template found below.

##**Students**: Contact professors below (DM/reply) and receive confirmation of acceptance.
        
Only professors are allowed to reply directly to this post, any other top level comments will be removed.

---

###Format for voluntary professors:
Please copy paste

**Username:** [USERNAME](LINK) http://masteroverwatch.com/ and copy paste the direct link into the brackets

**Competitive Rating:**

**Most played heroes:**

**Focus on Coaching Session/Area(s) of Expertise?**

**Language(s) spoken:**

**Region [Americas/Europe/Asia]:**

**Time Zone:**

**Form of communication / VoIP used:**

**Other:**

---

#Guidelines to all participants

**Schedule effectively.** It is important for both parties to plan your activity effectively so you can achieve your goals in the time you both have available. This follows on to the next point:

**Be on time.** If you are unable to attend your class, please DM your professor/student prior to your meeting.

**Be comfortable and be positive.** By creating a positive learning environment with your professor/student, you will feel comfortable and engaged. As a student, you will become more open to actively participate in class and it will be more likely that you benefit from the session.

##Guidelines to students

* Come prepared. What do you want to improve at? What new skills would you like to learn? Is there anything the professor can review (vods)? Know your weaknesses: what do you struggle with?

* You will choose a suitable professor below and send them a DM or reply on the comment. You will have to wait until they respond to confirm whether they will take you in or not. **Note:** If the professor does not reply to your DM, it is possible that his/her schedule is full. *Please respect the professors and do not spam them. Any reports will result in a ban.*

* Have an open mind before going into the session. Take the advice that is given to you. Improvement takes time and you cannot rush it. The more effort and time you put in, the more profound results will be, so never give up!

##Guidelines to professors

* As applications roll in, you will accept players of your choosing. Co-ordinate with your student to choose the right time and length for your session.

* **When your schedule is full**, please edit your post (by placing "#FULL" above your original comment) to say that you’re not longer taking new students. Please respond to every DM, even when your schedule is full.

* With the format above, be sure to make clear of what coaching services that you will offer, i.e. general FPS practice, review replays/VoD's, etc.

* We advise the coaches to organize a timetable with specific lessons on specific times. It is of great importance to work step by step. This will avoid overburdening your students with a demanding workload/too much information. Be sure to be prepared before starting the session.

* Don’t forget to listen to your students. Your student might be struggling with X without you noticing it, which might makes it harder to progress.

* Remember, you are a professor (albeit voluntarily)! You will be up to helping your students in almost any aspect of your area of expertise and making sure they understand it. And make sure to have fun in the process as well :)!

 

*If you are a professor and you don't end up getting any students for this week, feel free to repost it for next week.*

---

Report any disrespectful professors or students [here](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FOverwatchUniversity).

You can use the same link to contact the moderators if you have any questions or suggestions.

Good luck and have fun!
Where is the post like based in? It's 4pm Tuesday where I'm at
It was posted around 12 eastern time here in the US so I think it’s US based!

Want to get better at headshotting as McCree
(Gold tier scrub here)

So for the most part, I've been practicing in FFA since it was on the PTR with McCree only, and probably have more than 30 hours combined in that mode alone.

And my aim shows it.

But also because of it, my hidden MMR started putting me in GM lobbies. And I just can't keep up to that level of skill. even performance seems to start to drop.

My biggest problem is I just don't headshot. I can hit consistent bodyshots no problem, but most headshots I get just seem like a happy coincidence. And it's the latest obstacle that's holding me from improving on McCree.

And honestly, I have no idea what more can I do to improve my consistency in headshotting.

P.S: I know about the Ana/lucio bot headshot training, but I just don't feel like it's actually improving my aim at this point.

My personal opinion is if you play a full game of McCree and end up with 65% accuracy but only 8 crits, that's good. But I would say that a 45% accuracy with 20-30 crits is alot better. Aim for the neck instead of the head, so if you miss you are more likely to hit the body instead of miss altogether. "Aim small miss small"
Playing against GM players is good. If you're not losing, you're not improving. Just keep doing DM.
Don't go directly for the head, aim at neck level and use strafing to your advantage.
Custom game, headshot and McCree only. And hope people joins. I know there are Widow HS only games.
But that's what you want, right?

Playing against GM's will give you that unrivalled practice.

If you can hold your own against them, then Gold tier should be a piece of cake.

As much as its about accuracy with McCree, it's also very much about good game sense and positioning. 
If you actually beat gms in 1v1s regularly you wouldn't be gold unless you have atrocious positioning and game sense
Ok, so after losing so many times against GMs, the matchmaker just started pitting against Diamonds. And now I'm not *even* losing.

It's like Jeff doesn't even want me to get better or something.
I used to do that *all the time*, but since the DM patch I can't get anybody to play.

Maybe *because* they're all in FFA idk.
*And* it just dawned on me that I'm actually complaining about wiping the floor with diamond players as a gold scrub. 

I should really play ranked more.
HS only ffa?
Dude, FFA is such good practice.

Can't fight alone, is this normal?
Basically I feel incredibly horrid after losing a Deathmatch with only 1 kill and 20 deaths. I can't aim, predict where anyone will go, escape or anything. I have no idea if they'll go left right  around, above etc.Ijust press R2 and hope. Even as non aim characters like Winston, my personal favourite. I do find against Bots but I am beyond useless in real games.

But pair me up with a partner or two, and as long as I'm not the one being exclusively focused, I do much better. Can it be normal for some players to panic less when they don't duel?I also panic in FFA Deathmatch duels, and no I don't have bad aim. I think it's a common thing, because in this mode you KNOW there is no teammate to help you out when you mess up. When I play Tracer I have to duel the most common picks in Deathmatch: Mcree, Hanzo, Junkrat. It's horrible. Also the new map has too many tiny rooms where I can't really dodge flash, bombs or scatter. But I still play it, because it teaches me, how to play against my counters in an environment that doesn't favour my playstyle. It gets me out of my comfort zone,
I had something very similar and it turned out my aim was beyond bad =)  For the technical aspect of straight hitting the enemies I fell a little in love with AimHero from Steam.

The best tip I ever got for predicting your enemies movement goes like this:
Find their needs! Every Hero in Overwatch has needs resulting from his kit of abilities. This is where you can read their mind. A Dps with every ability on CD will most likely a) run for cover or b) run to a healthpack c) both or d) just die of incoming damage.  In reality i´d go for c) 

That´s the short explanation, i found it in a Pharah guide and imho its the best tip  i ever got regarding movement prediction. After two or three weeks of reminding yourself to find your enemies needs your brain will develop that "muscle memory" and you can decide in a split second where to shot.
It is natural to have poorer aim when under pressure. Getting used to hitting shots under these challenging conditions will make you a better player. FFA is GREAT for this, you are constantly under pressure. This skill will make the difference between pulling off a clutch play vs choking. 
Sounds like your mechanical skill isn't that good also, confidence helps a lot.
Play the thing that makes you anxious. Calm down. Focus on one thing at a time.
Yup its normal. I play mcree and even though he is the 'duelist', I find him easier to play when I have a team. For playing 1 versus everyone I pick up doomfist. And punch people :D
Since OW is a team based game, the new FFA is really big change. Especially for people like me who ONLY play Overwatch, getting rid of the co-op aspect makes me so uncomfortable. It's definitely not new, we are used to playing as a unit and working around others. 
It sounds like you just need to work on your aim. 
play duels, do it over and over, you'll get used to 1v1 situations and stop panicking simply by getting used to it


I freak out and end up doing dumb stuff like timing Tracer cooldowns wrong. FFA feels like when all your team mates die, and you are the last one on point. You know death is comming, so you try to take as many with you before you go out.


I think every single OW player will do much better in a 2v1 situation. It's only natural to win and do well if you have the numbers advantage.



Play one area of Château until you are really comfortable in it with a few heroes.  I've been honing my Tracer in that indoor area around the library and large health pack, and my movements and prediction have improved to the point where I can usually place top 3.  You have less to worry about when you can camp out and take 1v1s as they come instead of constantly moving and exposing yourself to too many angles.
Hey man, not exactly a good player myself but you remind me of when I was just starting out. Playing against bots can help with practicing aim, but I strongly encourage you to play against humans. They move way differently. 

I have spammed Mystery Heroes for probably my last 250 levels (am 500+ish). You learn how each hero moves and what they need to do in certain situations; that helps when trying to predict enemy movement. 

I also suggest that you make an effort with having a semi-decent aim. Maybe play around with your dpi-sens settings; find one that you're most comfortable with, and train your aim. I used to point my reticle in the enemy's general direction when I was a beginner, haha. (My motivation for training myself out of that was the feeling of satisfaction from landing headshots as DPS. Having something like that makes improvement easier and fun to achieve rather than like a chore.)

Last is about panic. First, learn what advantageous situations are. Get a feel for that. That way, you'll know when to engage/disengage/regroup/flee/etc. Again, you achieve this by playing against humans. When you get better at that, this is what I have done:

When I 1v1 my friend, I force myself to do my best and fight in a disadvantageous situation. I do this on purpose (and pay for it many times). It's that constant exposure to close calls and hopelessness that you eventually realize that there's nothing else that can help you but to keep your cool and do your outmost, focused best to get out of that situation. I love playing Hanzo and get scared to death when a Symmetra starts cooking me to death. My friend helped me get over that by constantly beating the shit out of me. I get into that quiet zone where you're just focused and motivated to kill it no matter how close to death you are because, apparently, there's no other way out of it (1v1 situation, no escape option).

Reason why I had to tell you about being familiar with putting yourself in an advantage first is that I don't want you to skip right away to that second step and it becomes a bad habit. I would know; I loved the rush of being able to pull out clutch moves under pressure although I could have been patient and waited for an actual good opportunity. That usually costs us games when it doesn't work out (it's a team game yes, but sometimes all it takes is that one mistake).

Most of all, have fun. Sorry for the long comment (and rather vague suggestions), but I hope these help you out in a way. Cheers man :-)
I find that all of the columns, hallways, and corners make blinking at 90 degrees incredibly powerful for avoiding damage and CC abilities.

Where I run into trouble is when I'm facing off against multiple other Tracers - man do my arms get tired!
I'm leaving tracer right now and i love FFA deathmatch for that reason. Almost everyone counters you and u learn to deal with that.
I've gotten some great practice baiting abilities/aiming in ffa.  As far as practice goes death match is my new go to for mechanics. Went from trash to consistent two clips in a matter of weeks
Never heard of Aim Hero before, but the video I saw of it makes it look quite useful.
All my skills are bad, even at level 270 ^^;
> I'm leaving tracer

leaving?
Same here. So many McCree and Hanzo. I keep falling for the same trap with McCree, getting him low and him hiding around a corner and me chasing him to my death. 

Sometimes you just have to give up the kill.

I can actually deal with DoomFist usually by hiding around a corner when he is charging, so long as I know he is there. I need to get better at recalling when I hear it nearby and I don't see him anywhere because I've been one shotted from side or back a few times. His ult has a second before splashdown so you can double blink out of it and shoot him when he appears in the center.
I two clipped a Reinhardt and surprised myself earlier today.
It helps me to understand why my aim is/was bad and strict skill stuff. Just knowing my aim sucks didn't help me to improve. 
I fire up AimHero five times a week just before starting ow and do different units for about 25minutes. 
Learning* phone autocorrected
Try dashing in and out quickly to bait flashbang for ezmoney
that's gotta be satisfying as hell lol
Looks like flashbang range is 5 meters, and blink is ~ 7 meters.

https://overwatch.gamepedia.com/McCree#Flashbang

https://overwatch.gamepedia.com/Tracer#Blink

Will try it out. Thanks.
Yup. I have to find my recording because I don't know when it's going ti happen again.

I also need to find the hotkey that records the previous x seconds.
I think the hotkey is F9 by default but not sure

Space Management in Overwatch
Hello!

In this video, we go over how to think about space in Overwatch. We can think of space in roughly 3 parts, the space your team owns, the space your opponents own, and the neutral ground in between. By following a few guidelines, you can ensure that you are maximizing your space usage, and having a calculated level of aggression.

Link: https://youtu.be/92p4zWWwUKEYour videos are always great. You have a unique way of explaining things that is incredibly clear, even to a new player like me. 
Thank you, I really appreciate that!

When does mercy's damage boost actually start
the question is in the title but could someone explain how damage boost works for Mercy. An example would be if you were boosting a rein or hanzo while they throw a fireball or an arrow or dragon strike and you stop boosting them before the projectile connects. Does the damage apply as if you were boosted or would it be normal damageIf it's a projectile then you have to be channeling them when the projectile hits its target.
Mercy's Damage Boost increases each unit of damage by 30%. 

When a Rien uses Fire Strike or Symmetra uses her alternate fire, the damage boost will only come into account if the hero is damage boosted on point of impact. 

If you damage boost a McCree, his shots will do more damage as it is instant. 

His deadeye will accumulate faster because of the 30% damage increase, so eliminating squishes is an ez task. 
What about something like hanzos ult. Is the whole thing powered up if hes got boost when he uses it or does the damage fluctuate
Think of it as the point of every attack registering some kind of damage - if mercy is boosting the person who did the attack at the precise moment it does damage, it will be boosted. So in the case of hanzo ult, you want to be boosting him the whole time when the enemy are caught up in it. You don't technically have to boost before it hits anyone.

I have pretty good aim with McCree but terribly inconsistent aim with Widow. How can I transfer my aiming?
With McCree I can consistently hit shots and headshots. My Soldier aim is also pretty good, Sombra is okay-ish. I can hold my ground against 3.3k players with those heroes aim-wise (Sombra is a bit more of a struggle obviously).  
However when I play Widow I get headshots once in a blue moon and oftentimes go 15s+ without hitting a shot (while in combat).

Any tips or practise drills you used to fix this (other than just keep playing her and frustrate myself by how bad my aim is)?If you scope by holding right click, it causes your hand to tense up in a way that is different from non scoped aiming. Try remapping your scope to a side mouse button or toggle scope to see if that helps. 
Whats your scope sens? Id recommend anywhere from 38-44 scope sens which feels almost 1 to 1 with regular sens
With widow I go from scan mode to flick shot. So I'll scan down SCOPE trying to predict where they will come from next then flick to the head.
Make sure your scope sensitivity is correct so you have the same sensitivity as McCree with 103 fov as Widow scoped with ~51 fov. AFAIK 38 relative scope sensitivity works but I'd look it up to be sure
Personally, I start with practicing flick shots in practice range or a custom game. Then, when that feels good, I do 1-3 Practice vs. AI games until I feel comfortable hitting my targets. That usually does it for me.   
Most important things: good grip on the mouse (along with good mouse & fps/ping), focus my eyes on the head (not the cursor. if I have trouble focusing on the head, I need to keep practicing or get some coffee or go to bed), go for small flick shots (because real people move unpredictably most of the time, and if they don't, then the flick is easy), and make sure I'm positioning how a sniper should be (not waiting for them to come when my team is pushing forward, but not in the front line where I will die to AoE spam).   
  
Also, not always an issue, but if you have a button that changes your DPI, make sure you didn't accidentally press it. I had to remap the button. 
Wow I'm actually the exact opposite. 
I swear by my Ana bots training regimen, even though a lot of people don't believe in it.

Mechanics like aim is easy enough to train in a training mode of sorts as long as you not autopiloting your training too much. Try to really break down each shot and analyze why you missed. Are you having issues tracking? Did you attempt a flick but undershot? Or overshot? 

Try to simplify the situation and then try again, like try aiming against targets whom are height level with you (i.e. you're not on high ground and vice versa). This way you are only concerned with aiming horizontally, and not vertically. Repeat your training and see what happens.

Or instead of shooting your target like usual, just try to keep your crosshair on your target while your target moves around. Then analyze how well you are tracking your target. A lot of these simple drills can reveal a lot of information as to what issues you're having and then you can try to fix those issues.

Question about MMR and placements.
When placing you after doing 10 placements, does the MMR it takes into account your Competitive MMR or all modes MMR? If the latter is true, would allowing a friend who is not very good at the game play on my account deflate my SR once I place?

Only competitive.

He can play QP on your account if you're willing to let him, it won't affect your SR in any way
What does this have to do with getting better at the game?
OK thanks

Picking Roadhog as a tank is like picking Symmetra as a support.
I dont care how he is classified in game, I dont care how much health he has.

When someone asks for a TANK, they are really asking for someone to BLOCK DAMAGE. 

We need players to BLOCK DAMAGE because its impossible to move through chokepoint with all the damage in the game. 

So by all means, play roadhog all you like. But when youre on offense, and you cant move through a choke cause of the damage, stop telling your teammates to switch off of real tanks because you are roadhog. Call him whatever you want, he is just a dps that is hard to kill. 

Edit: I dont mind downvotes, but why no explanation?If we have 4 insta-locked fps, then the other goes like a zen or something you better believe I'm picking Road. I'm not gonna a shield tank with 4 dps and the worst healer. Instead of saying something to the one person who DOES pick tank, even if it's Hog,  maybe you should say something to the other dps. 
Yea he's not a main tank but I think this new roadhog is especially good at absorbing damage and holding positions. 
What you have to understand is roadhog isnt actually a GOOD DPS. actually hes legit TERRIBLE at dps. You play him to displace and deny now. Thats HIS way of tanking.

King of like how your winston isnt meant to soak damage. He FORCES attention to a spot by CLEAVING a area. 

You really have to drop the one way of doing things unless your going to 6 stack. I hate to be rude but ive tried politely giving uou advice so now your gonna get the raw deal.

Your close minded. 

Your biggest weakness is your terrible attitude 

Your block is your focus on others instead of yourself.

What holds you back? Your inability to adapt to a situation and think critically.

You dont know how much team cohesion matters. 

Did you know dive SACRAFICES the ability to soak damage at a choke for the ability to be mobile and aggresive?

Did you know winston isnt a soak damage tank? 



Tldr

YOU GAVE UP. 


Incorrect. A tanks job is to make space.

Looking at the game so flat will hold you back. This is not a game against bots. They would simply avoid you if all you can do is soak damage. 

Tanks need the ability to peel i.e reins hammer hogs hook. 

Or the ability to protect defense matrix reins shield hog hook. 

What makes a tank a tank in overwatch is the ability to control. Hog can peel gengji winston if hes positioned correct and has a good gamesense on ults. Gengji going deep? If he solo ults i hook. If he gets a nano i whole hog to negate damage. Buying time and wasting their ults.

A tank DEMANDS attention he does not simply soak it. Thats a small part of being a tank.

Hog serves as a peeler. He is a midline enforcer that demands attention through his hook. 

A tanks kit is meant for control and demands outplay.
>because its impossible to move through chokepoint with all the damage in the game

no its not, thats what the bad players usually think. those are the exact same players that tell zen/lucio to go ana and mercy because "its not enough heal"
watch how i can word this.

Picking winston as a tank is the same as picking symmetra as a support.

I dont care how he is classified in game, I dont care how much health he has.

When someone asks for a TANK, they are really asking for someone to BLOCK DAMAGE.

We need players to BLOCK DAMAGE because its impossible to move through chokepoint with all the damage in the game.

So by all means, play winston all you like. But when youre on offense, and you cant move through a choke cause of the damage, stop telling your teammates to switch off of real tanks because you are winston. Call him whatever you want, he is just a dps that is hard to kill.






Road is one of the few tanks that can walk thru orisa and junk spam
What heroes are you playing and what map/SR is this?  I think your teams inability to get through or around a choke might be a deeper issue than just roadhog being picked.
As a solo support I'd be mad at symmetra , as a solo tank I'd be mad at roadhog but they are both viable off-picks.
A tank doesn't necessarily need to block damage. Roadhog is currently the character with the most sustain, that makes him the best anti-dive tank. With his take a breather he can soak up high amounts of damage, while also being a big threat at close range. He is helping the team by being a bullet sponge. The enemy wants to get rid of him in order to dive the squishy's around him without getting punished with a hook and a shotgun with a surprising fire rate.
I'd rather the player with experience on hog than someone's first time on rein, dva, Zarya. If you're asking for a tank n the only one he plays competently is roadhog and he is switching because your asking, then you complain about the pick, how annoyed do you think he is now?

I see you were playing Winston at the time, you easily could've switched to a more appropriate pick if choke spam was the problem. Winstons shield isn't ideal for getting your team through the choke either.

I won a match the other day solo healing as mercy. Only 1 tank, Zarya. And the other picks were widow Hanzo genji and tracer.  On paper that comp is shit, but we won. this was at like 3300-3400 range. 

Focus on what you can do to help get a win. And if you ask someone to switch, do it nicely, don't single people out and don't force people onto heroes they can't play. 


And to end your post. Rein would be blown away running it the same way you did. D.vas dm would be gased out. Quite simply put you shouldve understood between junk sym hanzo it was a area denial comp. 

They had 3 supports making roadhog one of the best picks to actually deal with that comp and snowball after getting in another way. 


Okay. Weird thing to say. Im not talking about people throwing the game cause i dont want to play tank. Im talking about situations where we NEED two tanks, and the second tank decides to play roadhog. 
That isnt what a tank does though. Literally all the other tanks help your team get through a choke by blocking damage. Roadhog only keeps himself alive, but your team still dies to all the spam. 

Call him whatever the fuck you want, but he doesnt do the one thing every other tank does. 
Like i said, call it whatever you want. But when youre team asks for a tank, they need someone to get them through the choke. They arent asking for someone to make space, or peel, or bully the enemy. They want someone to block damage. 
THIS. 
And you know what happens? Your team suffers movement wise. They then call ana mercy terrible but they dont realize. The lack of speed and discord isnt letting you close kills. Its about balance and utilizing what youve been given. 2 main heals just sit back and watch their team get out positioned and melt.

DO NOT classify roles as if this was some turn based game.

Supports support diffrent ways. Tanks tank diffrent ways.

Im so sick of hearing this. Its false. Supports are not just HEALZ. tanks are not just SOAK DMG PLZ. otherwise if thats ALL they did NOBODY would beat around the bush. Wed just go all dps and avoid the tanks cause why bother they dont do damage and wed frag all day.


>those are the exact same players that tell zen/lucio to go ana and mercy because "its not enough heal"

obviously not, cause i dont think that lol. 
Every tank can do that except winston. But winston just jumps straight at them.


It just triggered me today. im totally fine with triple dps on defense or koth. But on 2cp, you really need a second tank to push that initial choke. 

We had a roadhog who said he would switch if it didnt work. We ran into the choke against a junkrat and hanzo. Our dps's just exploded before they could do anything. I tried my best as winston, but it was just too much damage. The roadhog didnt switch out of spite until the last 10 seconds of the round. 

On defense, he made sure to let us know he wouldnt play tank. He didnt play tank to begin with. 

Turns out his top three characters are 76 genji and roadhog. Not surprised that the dps main gravitated towards the only tank that is actually just a dps. 
3k on volskaya 1. 
If we are going based on what CAN win, ive won/lost with/against just about every comp out there. But theres a reason why certain things are meta. You cant dismiss that.

I didnt switch because i was expecting him to switch, because he said he would. They also had sym/hanzo/ana/mercy, characters that are food for winston, but sorta difficult for other characters to deal with.

Knowing what i know now (that he wasnt going to switch) i would have probably gone dva.
Road hog is a tank tho my dude. Especially since they buffed him 
I play a lot of hog. He is great at protecting the backline from Winston/DVa and to a lesser extent Genji/Tracer. Once you land a few hooks on those heroes the players will play differently.

Plus it's not that hard to position yourself between a damage source and an at risk teammate. It's pretty much like Zarya with an always active bubble.
Roadhog does do his job as a tank tho by absorbing damage and creating space for the dps to do their job. His body blocks damage just fine now as well with his new buffs. He can get help get you through a choke. He's an off tank like zarya and dva, but he's still a tank. I mean I could also argue by your view on tanks that zarya isn't really a tank since she only has one bubble for someone on 8 second cooldown, but this criteria would fail to recognize how effective she is in the right hands. 
Roadhog has a big hitbox and people have to do 1800 damage to him to kill him if he uses take a breather while at full health to walk through a choke. 

That's essentially a faster moving Reinhardt with a smaller shield area. 

I can assure you. I have stood behind the Fatman.

Walk behind him, or wait for a pick. He has a different style of initiation than the other tanks.
Also. Lucio will get you through a choke better than a reinhardt. 

Reinhardt isnt supposed to sit. Hes a saftey who needs to get into hammer range to maximize his kit.

Ive solotanked as hog by using good positioning and taking advantage of the team who chose to sit behind a shield. 

Its all how you play it.
Again. Hog can peel initiate. Life gave you your hand and u bitched about it instead of acklowedging you needed to play it diffrent. 

Heres a tip.

Noone here is good enough to say it has to be x or we need this for this.

Even in high gm top 500. 

Even pro players get creative. Sometimes it works sometimes it doesnt.

You need to open your mind. Its closed off.


I would rather have Zarya as an off-tank there if I'm playing Winston.  But you could have gone Rein, no?  Since you were the main tank, and the Hog player was the off tank?  I rarely see Rein/Winston (although I don't think it's a terrible comp for solo Q), so it seems a little off for you to be righteously upset over your teammate not wanting to run 2 main tanks.
Point is you had hog winston and you played it wrong.

End of disscusion. 

Please feel free to ask questions and help others. This is a forumn to improve. 

If you want to cry about stupid players and throw your salt around the overwatch general forumns will gladly accept you. 

Can we get a mod to delete this post? Its not speculative. It doesnt teach, neither does it ask.

Its simply a example of whats wrong with players mentality. The only thing to take from this is what to NOT do when the heat is on.

Its not about effectiveness. Roadhog is a really good dps. 

He doesnt do his job as a tank because he doesnt block damage for his team. Yes, you could maybe take a breather into the enemy, but:
1. you cant see through him
2. he doesnt cover enough space to keep you safe from sniper or different angles
3. he doesnt block splash damage
4. he doesnt block hook/stun (he just take them to the face, which isnt really a benefit to your team).
5. his self heal lasts for 1 second (maybe 2, if the reductions lasts the entire animation).

These are all things that make him WORSE at tanking than zarya. Zarya gives you sheilds wherever you are; you dont have to be behind her. Her shield does not impare you in anyway, and purges/protects from all kinds of CC. Her barrier is 2 seconds like hog, but she has another one as well. So its a total of 4 seconds of shielding, 2 seconds is a better version of hog's tank ability (**from your team's point of view**), and 2 seconds is a shield that can be thrown anywhere your teammates are.

And even then, people call zarya a hybrid. So if zarya is a hybrid tank/dps, what does that make hog?

Literally the only situation hog would be better tank than zarya is if the enemy has 800 points of burst over 2 seconds that is coming DIRECTLY at your team from one direction. 

I want to reiterate, HOG IS GOOD. He is extremely powerful in skilled hands. But when your team needs someone to block damage, they need a rein/zary/winston/dva/orisa/even fucking mei. 
> Ive solotanked as hog by using good positioning and taking advantage of the team who chose to sit behind a shield.

And we've all lost to 5 dps comps. One or two positive experiences doesnt make something an optimal, or even logical strategy.

If that's how you play the majority of your ranked games, then i would believe it. 
I agree with both of you,

Lucio is a main tank.

Youre literally just dismissing strategy as a whole. Of course everything can work with the right execution. But why are tanks and healers considered required at all? Because a better strategy makes the execution easier.

Even i high gm top 500 i bet that if the players wanted to win they would play a smart comp instead of a retarded one. 
Im not mad that he was being selfish. Im mad that he thinks he wasnt.
Yea I agree with you on him not being as optimal as other tanks at blocking damage. But I think it's silly to compare him to a tank like rein who is a primary tank. Roadhog is a secondary tank or hybrid tank. In fact I would say now he's even closer to a tank than dps bc of all his changes. He can also be effective as a secondary tank in choke holds as he can spam damage into the enemy's barrier. Guess I'm just saying that I think it's the bad mindset to have to say that roadhog isn't a tank and doesn't do a tank job when he actually does create space for his team. But I'm sure you probably had a situation which titled you where the tank synergy didn't work out due to your team most likely having a bad tank combination synergy wise including roadhog. 
Yes. This is the diffrence between off tanks and maintanks. 

Again you under value what a pick can do.

Ive solo tanked as roadhog above 3750. Is it optimal? Not at all. But with proper outplay its extremly possible. You have to asses a team as a whole. A rein who sits there but allows his dps room to shoot is doing no more then what a wall does. 

Rein is mainly used for close proximity space control. 

His hammer is the true part of his kit.

Roadhog was meant to offtank but it doesnt mean you cant play him as a careful frontline. 

Try to broaden your view. Positioning and use of speedboost are far more effective then just saying we need rein. 

If your soaking tons of damage your mispositioned for your current comp. You dont have to play chokes. You can always avoid damage instead of take it. Utilize your lucio to close gaps and dont be so shut off to outplaying.

Symmetra IS a support but that doesnt mean she needs to heal. She supports through her zone denial and peeling. 

It all comes down to how you play it. 


Want to bet? I play it.
YOUR dismissing strategy for one way of thinking. You cpuldve went d.va rein or zarya yourself. Why would you ever run it down a choke as hog winston if your gonna ONLY play one way. 

To be blunt your just uneducated and being stubborn. All tanks are big shoot me aggro dps. 

Your not understanding. 

Your tilting over his pick. 

Want to know how to improve? 

Shut your mouth be open to ideas and MAKE it work. 

Thats how you improve. You dont blame ONE pick and say gg hog threw.

NO. YOU THREW. you ran it down mid as hog winston and 4 others.

THEN your toxic attitude which we all know you have KILLED morale. 

You didnt try to win you took the easy way out. You BLAMMED ONE PLAYER who was playing a tank wether you like it or not he DOES tank just not in your OMGTANKSARESUPPOSEDTOSOAKDMG way. YOU ALL played it wrong. 

You cpuldve swapped d.va or zarya and FED off the spam. 

WHERE was your swap? Where was your strategy?

Simple truth. You had none. Period. Despite everyones role it was played wrong. Period. Own it and move on. 
K
What is a good tank combo on offense that includes a hog? The only thing that could work imo is rein, and thats just because rein is a main tank. 

On defense any combo works, as long as you have another tank. Even without another tank, he is not that bad. But defense is defense. You dont have to clear a choke, so tanks become a lot less necessary. 
I agree with all of that. But that doesnt refute my point. 

When your team is asking for a tank, they are asking for someone to block damage. They need someone to block damage so they can move through the choke. Roadhog isnt a damage blocking tank. So when your team says "wow we really need a tank" they dont mean someone to get a pick. 

If youre team wanted someone to get a pick, they would say "we really need to get pick"

If youre team wanted close proximity space control, they would say "can someone deal with this tracer?"

Ill try to broaden my view of what a tank can be. But you should take a more pragmatic view. When your team has a problem, you have to listen to them and try to solve it. Going roadhog when your team is begging for a tank doesnt solve anything, even if you have personally defined roadhog as a tank. 
Sure, id love to see a few high level games with roadhog no rein on attack. 
relax
Imo it's rein and roadhog are best. Roadhog orisa could work in theory. I think it also depends on the map. I think on 2cp most payload maps you would want a rein roadhog. I would probably never suggest Winston roadhog. I think that's his worse combo on offense. 
No dude. Some of us come here to improve. Take that bullshit to the general forums.

We are here to get help or to teach and players like YOU breed a bullshit losers attitude.

Go ahead keep pointing fingers.

Thats what successful people do right? 
Im gonna give you a quote that helped me see and tackle everything in life and all its thrown at me. And i hope you take it in because you need it.

A successful man is one who can lay a firm foundation with the bricks others have thrown at him.

This is called playing your hand. Making lemonade out of lemons.

DO NOT COME HERE WITH THAT GARBAGE ATTITUDE.

THIS IS FOR IMPROVEMENT NOT QQ.



1700 Zenyatta Positioning Critique Request (w/ VOD)
This is the first season I'm really trying competitive. (Did placement and a few games in some past seasons just to get the points at the end). I notice I often get caught by ults or singled out away from my team. I've been lurking this sub and watching videos to build a better sense of awareness and I was hoping someone could help point it out in my own gameplay. [https://youtu.be/T6kdD0sbjxg](https://youtu.be/T6kdD0sbjxg)

Thanks all.

Edit: Thanks for all the feedback from everyone. I'll be re-watching my video a few times with the comments printed so next time I can catch myself doing it wrong.Hey bro, watched your gameplay but honestly there's some stuff even more important than positioning that needs to be adressed:

-Are you using headphones? It really felt as sometimes you were oblivious when there was an enemy behind you. For example at 9:30 you can clearly hear Sombra's footsteps and even see her shooting from above. 

-I noticed that it took you a lot of time to juggle harmony/discord orbs around and your accuracy also left a lot to be desired tbh. Sometimes you were even standing still to shoot. It's a really good idea to go into practice range and do these [drills](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7ImuUkPrh4) everytime before you start playing comp.

-At 1:50 ish you are chasing Sombra going to the right side which is pretty foolish since it is really hard to kill her on your own (especially since she was close to that mega health pack), not to mention your teammates cannot benefit from your orbs if you wander off like that.

-Your Transcendence usage can be improved by a lot. This is also tied to anticipating which ults the enemy likely has, and when they are going to use it. 

At 4:30 you popped Transcendence to save yourself since you didn't know the enemy D.Va had self-destruct. If you would have positioned yourself correctly there (in such a way that you can easily dodge it), you could have used Transcendence at 5:05 to save your teammates from the Reaper ult (somehow your teammates just ran into it :S).

At 9:43 you pop Transcendence for no reason (half of the enemy team wasn't even on point and your team was near full HP) and then proceed to die at 9:53 because you did not anticipate D.Va's self-destruct.

Again at 15:20 you can clearly hear Sombra's footsteps and even gunfire but you don't seem to notice it. You then pop Transcendence at 15:40 to save yourself while at over half HP and in a 3v1 scenario (dunno what your D.Va was doing though looking at that wall), which again you could have used in the following push to get past the choke.

So to sum everything up, here's the things you should be working on the most:

-Mechanical skill by doing the drills I linked above.

-Always anticipate before each push which enemy ults are up, and think about what you can do to counter or simply avoid them.


Disclaimer, I'm a mid gold player, but as far as I can tell my zen is at around platinum level compared to other characters i'm worse on.

* Right off the bat when the sombra came in you discorded and fired a few shots at her, which is great, but instead of calling it for your team you tried to chase her yourself, leaving the frontline without any healing and putting yourself in danger. You and sym were okay 2v1 but when genji came in you were backed into a bad position. Rather than chase the sombra your best bet is to stay on the far side and warn your team, as you can easily outrange her AND you probably would have seen the genji coming.


* Next thing I saw, transcending to survive a dva ult :( I understand, I've done it, and i've always regretted it. One of the worst things you can do is get forced into transcendence by hanzo/dva/mccree type ults that could've been avoided with better positioning (junk/tracer are less avoidable sometimes you just are the target). In that situation you either needed to drop backwards and use the bell as cover or react quicker and move to the side cover w/o transcendence.


* Another thing of note is the second you have transcendence there are 3 high priority things you needed to focus on(against this specific team comp). 1. Stay alive to use it (incl not using it to save yourself) 2. Don't get EMP'd 3. Counter Dragonblade. Zens Ult is extremely effective against dragonblade and grav, good against shatter/blizzard if you aren't caught in, and decent against other offensive ults. When you see the enemy team comp one of the best things you can do is pick your primary target to transcend and hope you don't need it except in that case.
Thanks for posting - I see two big things with your play style with zen. 

1. Too many charge shots - Usually I do charge shots only if I can actually see (via discord) someone is coming around a bend, or if I'm just unloading into a bastion or torb from long range or a rein shield. What seems to be happening to you is you charge shot, then when an actual enemy comes up you're stuck in reload

2. segue into point 2 is that zen is a pretty aim dependant hero and your aim isn't the best (mine isnt either that's why I stopped playing him) but I'd recommend either practicing that a lot more or try to pick heroes with a little more spread 

3. try not to pop ult just to live - zen ult imo should be saved for when your team is doing a team fight on a point, or for when you all get sucked into a grav or a genji is trying to wreck your entire team. When you popped ult on A I suspect it was mostly reactionary "I don't want to die!" 

Good luck! Rooting for you 
Working on a [flowfeedback](https://flowfeedback.com/feedback/zpMaf7jTmn8jP3cs5) for you. Anyone else can add to it as well I'm pretty sure.
I feel I need to add: Any player that isn't green through walls can use a top off, it can help build your ultimate faster during downtime and making sure a player has an orb when they're fighting can change the outcome.

There was several occasions where you could have bounced the orb on rein or soldier for example. You can listen to the sounds the orb make to understand when you can swiftly juggle it.

Like many pointed out you play a very self-serving playstyle. As a support you should really be supporting the team. Discord the players others are shooting, make sure they get that healing love when they push in to a fight. You don't have to chase for kills, make sure you have backup from team mates and  bring the fight to them instead.
My favourite Zenyatta drill is actually in the training range, and teaches travel time for your projectiles.

From spawn, head hard right to the lower section with all the moving bots. Along the right hand wall there is that covered area with the two targets. Stand between them and face towards the bots. All of them will now cross your path like targets in a traditional shooting gallery. Without moving, start delivering headshots, trying to get a feel for how much you have to lead at each distance. You will catch closer bots when trying to hit farther ones, try to avoid doing that as well, the point is to be able to land your shots on the target that you want, even if other targets are in the way. Once you have a feel for distance, mix it up. Try to land one headshot on every bot without killing any. Try to only hit the one in the back that follows the railing. Try to kill them all before the first ones completely respawn. 

It's a real challenge, and will teach you a lot that will serve you well when you are ready to start moving around and aiming at live targets.

Ditch the Ana bots and play Death Match with Zen. You will die, but you will be surprised at how much better your aim positioning gets in a hurry.

Good luck!


Generally speaking your aim is really bad. From what I can see you aim as if zen is a hitscan when his balls are projectiles.

You also need to get better at your right clicks. A lot of the time you are just sending out 1-2 balls (commit to the rightclick), and when you are at 3+ you arent really aiming them anywhere in particular. Specifically you just want to aim them where the enemy is going to step out of cover. Specifically the gate at hanamura. Just keep throwing them where they have to poke their heads out and eventually you'll land them.

Also you need to work on map knowledge and decision making. Specifically seen at 4:28 when d.va ults. you should have hid behind the bell on point instead of wasting ult to survive, especially against a genji because now he will have ult to just wipe your team. Also again at 6:49, im pretty sure you could have stayed behind that pillar to survive, I know ive done it on many small characters, not sure if zens knees would get him killed here. Also your rein should have walked to the mech and he could have saved you, but hes really bad so yeah.

The ult at 7:17 wasnt needed, but I understand you felt in danger and thats why you ulted. But its important to know you were in danger because you walked in a straight line, but you had heaps of time to wait for team mates etc. Also the right click there you should have started earlier to get a bit more pressure off. This would have allowed you to have ult for the reaper.

9:06 you literally walk over junkrats corpse and your lucio barrier gets completely destroyed. That would have killed you without lucios ult. If you did this on purpose because you had lucio ult, thats still 100% the wrong call, especially vs a hanzo

9:27 you can clearly see someone shooting from up top, but no one pays attention to that. It should have been obvious it was an enemy because there was no silhouette of your team member(s) there.

9:33 you are just standing in the open for no reason you should be behind that pillar you are looking at, or better yet the middle thing behind the shrine. This would have also let you duck out of sombra ult, because the only reason she would jump in 1v5 like that is to ult.

Ult at 9:42 was really, really bad. No one was in danger, junkrat and sombra essentially went in 2v6, and now this leaves you open to a reaper ult, and also to save you from the d.va ult, which you should have been up behind the pillars anyway. no reason to be on point like that unless you are specifically shooting at enemies from a safe distance that you could run back to the pillars anyway.

12:26 Just gonna reiterate about right clicking in weird ways. this is a good charge, but you literally are in no position to even peak around corner to launch them off. Then you follow up with a 1 charge right click (remember right click projectiles do less damage per ball than a left click, its the total damage that makes it strong; along with the "burst" of projectiles)

13:58 you're all about to step on a trap; a really badly placed trap too.

14:06 when a tjorb ults like that, everyone should really just back off. The only reason to have keep going would be if you're already at the point, killed 2-3 people, or can LoS while in an advantageous position, but since you and zarya are at gate, its better to just back off and wait it out.

15:36 you are better saving the ult here. Zen ult is a very good tool to push on to the point, i know you're down a player and its basically a loss but its still important to play as well as you can.

16:09 how did you miss that turret!

TL;DR
Overall your positioning wasnt too bad since as zen theres a certain level of following your team required, but your teams positioning as a whole was quite awful. You definitely needed to play corners more on defense, and when being aggressive you need to NOT run in to melee range (especially vs the junkrat which got you panicked/killed you a couple of times).

You also need to focus more on healing/discording people. You let friendlies sit with low health for quite some time while you try and hit enemies that probably wont die.

I think in particular to this issue the default binds are screwing with you, because with E as your discord, how can you move to the right and use it efficiently? Id recommend changing discord to mouse button 4 (side buttons). It doesn't interfere with left or right clicking and frees up your left hand just for movement.
First fight : dont chase sombra. in fact, dont chase any flankers. flankers kill zens. zens hitbox is so wide that most or tracer and sombra's spread will melt zen. call it out, let the sym deal with it. because you went after sombra, your rein and lucio lost the front choke. 

second fight, after your respawn : dont fight pharah. you can try but its very difficult to challenge a pharah as zenyatta. your time is better focused on ground targets. every shot that you miss on pharah is damage that you can put on some walking targets. discord pharah, call it out and let your hitscans deal with pharah. 

5:42 - right here while walking, look at how many enemies are on the point and how many teammates are walking there. its a 4v2. that point is lost so stay back and defend B. any death will just be feeding enemy ultimate charge. 

9:05 - okay this was funny. lucio's accidental sound barrier saved your life there. you kill junkrat and walked on his corpse. junk drops bombs when he dies. you took 400 damage there for no reason. if you didnt have lucio's sound barrier, you'd be dead. i thought that was a funny accident there. 

on defense point b, your positioning was okay but it could be better. take the high ground, top left. soldier was up there the whole time so he could have protected you. zen is a backline hero and you definitely understand your positioning but backline doesnt always mean "stand on the objective". in fact, standing on the objective was how you died to the dva bomb twice. 

on attack, you were just unlucky. you had a leaver and your rein switched off. that was just bad luck. not your fault and nothing couldve been done there. 

Overall, you have a decent understanding of positioning. its good but not great. take the high ground more to be safe. on point A, you panic tranced once due to a dva bomb which you didnt need to and wasted ultimate there. on point B, you died twice to a dva bomb because you were out of position. yes, sometimes being in the backline on the objective is considered out of position. if you were with your soldier or even up the steps, behind the objective, that wouldve been better. 

you need to learn your match ups. do not chase sombra, reaper and pharah like you did here. zen is a support. he provides damage to the team via discords and DPS but it is not his job to chase down enemies. 

one last note : you have pretty good aim as zen. that's just something that gets better the more you play but you definitely know when to right click versus when to left left. 
At the start you're way to close to the front line. The second that rein shield drops you're dead. You shouldn't be any closer than the rocks at a minimum. You can take the high ground on the right or play back on the point, or behind the rock, but never be right at the gate.

After that you leave your team to go hunt a Sombra by yourself. Throw on discord, call it out and leave that to others. While you were doing that your team didn't have your heals or dps and they crumbled at the gate.

Once you get back from spawn you try to help take out the pharah which is good, but your aim was the problem there. No big deal, you did the right thing by returning to your team.

At 3:40 you had a good position. You're able to heal everyone and dps anyone going through the gate. Teammates are close enough to help with flankers. Around this time your positioning is good but you need to be more on top of harmony orbs to keep everyone topped off. Lots of dead time not doing healing.

At 4:30 you completely waste an ult dodging the dva ult. You probably didn't even need to use it to get away. Even if you had died it would have been the better call to not use it. Save it for team fights or for ults that you can save teammates from. If you had saved it for that reaper ult at 5:08 you could have saved sym, lucio, and soldier.

In the next fight at 5:20 you should have backed off the point as soon as they started rushing in.

At 6:00 you should have abandoned the point earlier. You got the genji but it's a better idea to stay alive and regroup. Trading a kill for a death there isn't that valuable.

At 6:40 you're in the back which is good, but they had the high ground so you were completely exposed. In this case you should have been behind the rein shield. Hanzo had a clear shot on you the whole time. When the dva ult went off you could have hid behind rein or got behind a wall, but you panicked and died to it.

At 7 minutes you actually made a good play. You had enough time that you didn't need to rush in with your ult right away, so waiting for some teammates to take advantage of the ult was the right choice.  Unfortunately the enemy was smart and held on to their ults for after, but I still think you made the right call.

At 8:05 you go for a kill before putting harmony on your soldier who was taking damage. He didn't die but you should have put healing on him before doing anything.

At 9:40 you completely waste on ult saving yourself from junkrat death nades. Even if you had died to them you had plenty of time to get back on point with ult in time for the push. That mistake could have easily cost you the point.

I don't have time to watch the rest right now but hopefully that's helpful. Diamond Zen player if that matters.
i can review it later probably, almost only zen in placements and won 70% of them at gm level
Adding to this comment, I'd say on the second point on defense, you were not making use of the high ground. 

You keep behind your team, but way too close to them. Your orbs have no damage fall off. You need to use that for your advantage and try to be out of range of any incoming damage.

Standing on the high ground would have allowed you:

- Not die from the third Dva ultimate
- Annoy the sombra getting on top (which was weird, but whatever)
- Help soldier when he was doing work up there

Also just to note two times you got lucky and did not die because of you position:
 - 9:05: you kill junkrat and then walk straight on top of his body, but Lucio ult saved you
 - 8:35 you get shot, not really sure by who, but a better player would have better accuracy and kill you

Now on attack:

- 12:49 there are two things here, 1) it was good that you were spamming that shield, but not good the way you did it. You should charge your 5 orbs, peek and immediately go back into hiding. You saw they had a Hanzo, so you should be alternating you FOV between the choke, and the window on the left (and your teammates!)
2) you were strafing but with W,S, you should have done that with A,D (he killed you without moving his mouse)
 - Around 13:30, you knew the turret was behind the door, but instead of telling your Dva, you kept trying to kill it yourself. The first time you were lucky the Junkrat wasn't around to kill you and the second time it caused you to be too much forward and lose your shield to Sombra's ultimate

As a general advice, you need to improve your orb usage (spam that E, and always have your harmony on someone!). 
Is very good that you use comms, but you need to give effective information.
To reiterate TharTV comments, you need to improve ult usage, you used it mainly to save yourself, instead of using it to counter enemy ultimates.
Thanks for the detail. I'm well aware my aim leaves something to be desired and had been working on with Ana Headshot Bots and Aim Hero. I'll go through the linked video to get some better drills.
That chase instinct is hard to break but I know I need to if playing support. Regarding dva ult, I read somewhere that transcendence won't even save others if they get caught in it so its really only a save myself move.
Thanks for the comments.

Unfortunately I got lucky running into people with shots charged which reinforced the bad behavior so I've been using them constantly and not more situationally. Sounds like I need to fix that (and reload in any downtime).

I'm certainly going to practice my aim more. I know if I want to move up I need to get that on lock.

Ults have been an evolving process for me. First, I rarely used them for fear of not having it when I needed it. Second, I realized I might only do an ult once in a game and wanted to use them more. Coming to now, I'm quick to throw one down when it seems it'll save me or maybe kind of block another ult. Lots of work here to do with anticipating ults and understanding the proper time to use them.
Wow. That's a very cool website. Thanks for the in-depth comments.
Self-serving is a good way to put it. I'm typically thinking more about elims and will discord whoever I'm shooting and heal whoever is around me that I can do quickly while still shooting. Based on these comments it sounds like shooting should be the absolutely last thing I do, only doing so after ensuring I'm in a good position, the team is healed, and a teammate's target has discord. Along with that, if a flanker engages I should focus on making sure I'm by my team so they can take them instead of taking them 1v1.
That'd be awesome. Do you have any videos out there I could watch?
So as Zen it sounds like I should always be looking to be 1) on the high ground, 2) as far away as I can be while still being able to see my team, 3) near health packs, and 4) only be on point if using transcendence. I know I have a slew of things to work on but I figure once I know where to stand I can start thinking more about everything else. Right now I always feel out of place but not sure where to go and I waste time on that vs orbs and ults
Yep exactly, things that do large bursts of damage: junkrat, tracer, dva, mccree will completely go through it so you can only save yourself by transcending
No prob, I'm only a plat Zen main so I'm sure someone else can offer better insight, but hey every bit helps.
Look up coach seksi on youtube
i dont really know of any zen players except boombox that stream

i could record some of my own gameplay maybe
Caveat to #2: watch out for flankers. If you're too far from your team then you're easy pickings for Tracers and whatnot. 
1. Generally, but not always. You need to be somewhere with a good vantage while also being close to teammates.

2. Don't do that, that will come back to bite you if you start ranking up. If you're that far back flankers will shred you and nobody will be around to help. If there's no flankers on their team fine, but if they have a genji, tracer, or sombra you need back up for when they come for you.

3. Can be helpful but not if it means leaving your team. If you have a second healer you shouldn't need to worry about it all. Chances are you'll get bursted before you can get to a health pack. 

4. Trans is tricky, even in diamond I still have trouble finding a balance between wasting it and holding on to it all game waiting for the perfect moment. In general use it save multiple teammates, and almost never just to save yourself. If the other team has ults like Graviton, soldier or phara ult, it's very valuable to save it for those.
Just watched one. Just what I needed. Thanks for pointing me towards him.
Unkoe but it's more 70% Ana and 30% zen.
The stream is in French but you'll just miss super salty comments so nothing very usefull about the gameplay

Im on a 800 Sr losing streak and at this point i dont even know anymore what to do.
Its impossible for me to win right now every single game my team is just the worse team. At masters and high diamond i blamed myself a lot because i am just as much part of the team as anyone else. But now in plat I just cant do anything to make my team win even if i play good enough that i should be able to. People throw either midmatch or already at the hero select screen with an absolutly terrible teamcomp. If not that they just play extremly bad. I am not perfect but i was most of the time able to play well enough that we should win. I dont want to be the guy blaming his team but im consistently on the team  that gets completly steamrolled. I tried flexing. I tried to insist on my pick as long as possible in hope i dont need to flex but i still flexed if needed. I dont want to be the guy locking in 3rd dps becazse im such a carry. Im just really lost as to what i should do right now to climb again.You're in plat, so that means no decay. Just walk away and try again in a little bit. If you keep playing and losing, you'll only hurt yourself. Take a break. Play any of the hundreds of other games.
alternate between different shooters like pubg and csgo
Sorry to hear. I had a similar massive loss streak back in season 3. What I'd  recommend is maybe partner up with someone who complements you're playstyle.

For example, if you play mainly tank/support, party up with a DPS you know you can rely on to do their job. Makes queuing slightly less random when there is at least one person you can tely on for teamwork.
Change the time of day you play? I found that the game quality has a noticeable difference for me when I play at 2pm vs midnight. 
Take a break. A good break. Put the game down for a couple of weeks. Don't even start the game. Play something else. Give yourself time to unwind and refresh. There's no decay so you won't lose rank.
I'm in gold/plat and noticed lots of weird team comps end of S5 start of S6. Surprisingly my win rate seems about the same even with wonky compositions as long as I don't tilt at the beginning. At this level the other team sometimes just can't handle the weirdness. 

Try to embrace the junk/attack torb/Mei comp and just roll with it. You might be surprised. 
Holy fuck are we going to have 50 of these threads every fucking day
I should have mentioned that this streak started already in season 5. I already took a break and honestly it helps to remain a better attitude for the time it takes the next match to end in another shitshow but thats it.
Take a break for a few hours. Play some quick play or something. Also try not to let throwers get to you. I had a game yesterday where a player on my team started screaming obscenitys at another teammate for his hero pick. The guy with the odd hero pick got pissed off and just started walking off the map, completely threw the game. 


Fast forward, ended up playing with the thrower again. I didn't say a word to him about what had happened. Just acted like it didn't even happen. He picked a strange hero pick but no one said anything. We ended up winning he match because he was so good at it, and ended up saving my ass countless times. 


Moral of the story: Dont judge a book by its cover. If someone can get picks with a non traditional pick, then let them at least try it. If it doesn't work politely ask them to switch. Getting angry will just fuel the fire and cause more throwers. 
Im curious how can that help? 
If it's been happening for months it's not really a streak. You may need to re-evaluate what you are contributing to these losses.
you can continue practicing fps fundamentals while keeping things fresh and not getting frustrated.
Sometimes it really is bad luck and shit teammates. Gold and Plat is full of wannabe DPS mains who think flexing is a dirty word and manchildren ready to throw if the team won't work around their pick. Lot of inflated egos clashing with little skill to back them up...
months is an overstatement. Its almost straight 500sr loss in s5 and then 300 sr in season 6. I watch my vods. I have my vad moments bit my god if my team throws with their 3-5 dps picks so hard that we get spawncamped in our attack round on Eichenwalde you cant do shit. Also to add i won only 3 games during the loss streak and in 2 of them i played lile shit but i won. Losing does not feel punishing for my personal skills and winning does not feel rewardimg.

[PC] My tracking excellent in Practice Range, but does not translate into actual games at all. Tips welcome.
Before competitive games I tend to go into the practice range to warm up a bit. I have no problem tracking all the targets in the Practice Range. Stationary targets, moving targets, I can track them while stationary and moving/jumping around easily. Then when I go into an actual game, all of that practice doesn't seem to carry over even a little bit. There are times when I feel like I can empty an entire clip and only hit them once which NEVER EVER happens during practice. It's insane. I feel like all that practice in the Practice Range is not useful at all. Are the hitboxes in the practice range just more forgiving or something? 

For reference, my mouse settings are: Mouse acceleration disabled, 800dpi, 5.0 sens ingame. My ingame sensitivity used to be lower around 3.5, but I've been told your view should be able to turn 180degrees moving your mouse across one end of the mousepad to the other and 3.5 wasn't allowing me to do so. And I come from a Counter-Strike 1.6 background, but my aim was never that good there either - I just had good teammates to carry me during matches LOL.

What tips do you players have for improving ingame tracking?
Practice range bots are far too easy to track due to their set paths they take. Human players do not follow any set path so it's a lot harder to track them. And as you asked earlier it is true that the bots' hitboxes are bigger than most of the heroes is the game.

I personally think tracking is a lot harder to pick up than flicking. Flicking doesn't work on heroes like Soldier but playing McCree or Widow does not mean you won't be tracking, you'll simply be doing a lot less of it. If you want to learn tracking you could play tracer, Sombra and Zarya where all 3 of their ranges are below mid-range. Then you could move onto McCree and focus more on tracking than flicking and then move onto soldier. With soldier you could try play him like you play McCree and do small flicks and burst fire instead of pure tracking. Will this work? I don't know but I think it would benefit you more than playing in the practice range.

Practice bots have GIGANTIC heads so aiming feels easier. Practice with Anas are usually the go to because she has a very small hitbox.
you cant be serious right? the bots always walk the same pattern and have huge hitboxes.....
you might be nervous in a real game ... !?
The practice bots are too easy to predict, so you think your aim is good when in fact you are just predicting their movenent and meme it with your mouse. Its called predictive aim and its the worst type of aim you can learn. What i recommend you to do is at least one of those two things:

1. Buy Aim Hero on Steam and practice in the "Reflex" mode

2. Play deathmatch with your favourite hitscan, so you learn how to shoot unpredictable moving targets.

Both Methods help you develop the necsessary hand-eye-coordination for a reactive style of aim. 
Less practicing more playing. Practicing against bots is like practicing Logic by playing Sudoku only. You will become very good at the speciffic Task (tracking bots) but as soon as the Patterns change your musclememorey messes up. You start tracking a bot where None is.

400 dpi or 800 dpi?
Should i use 800 dpi 4.5 sens or 400 dpi 9 sens?

I see so many hitscan pros use low dpi high sens, rather than high dpi low sens, even though pixel skipping exists.In general, a higher DPI is always better IF it is a true, physical sensor DPI and no extrapolated PR shitvalue. Some sensors can switch DPI but perform better or worse when moving too far away from a certain sweetspot.
I don’t think that it has too much of an impact. 
If people use lower dpi's like 400 its because of years of muscle memory. 

In cs:go it isn't uncommon for people to play with a 4:3 aspect ratio square instead of a typical 16:9 aspect ratio (to fill a typical widescreen monitor). You can't see as much with 4:3 in comparison to 16:9 which puts you at a much larger disadvantage than using 400 dpi instead of 800 would. They still do it because of familiarity. 


If you have not already been using 400 for years stick with 800. 
it doesn't really matter. I use 400 DPI personally because it also allows me for comfort during desktop. I like my mouse moving slow and steady even when I am not gaming.

Also pixel skipping is bs, its just placebo. best aimers in the world play with 400 dpi. "pixel skipping" is such a minor thing it won't affect you in game unless you go with something really ridiculous like 50 dpi.
Unless there are problems with your mouse sensor at low values, the "feel" of both configurations should be identical. 

I recommend 800DPI if you're using the same DPI setting for general computer use, otherwise 800/4.5 is probably "safer" anyway since it's farther away from the low end of the DPI spectrum, though if you have a good mouse it shouldn't matter. 
Worry about other aspects of gameplay, not this.
The higher dpi is better assuming the mouse sensor supports it well, which should be the case for modern mice.

If you want windows to feel the same at double the dpi, you change the windows sensitivity to 4/11 from 6/11.
even though a lot of pros use 400 dpi (a lot also use 800) 400 is on the extreme end of the spectrum, just as above 1600 is on the other extreme, because of that alone I think 800 is a safer bet.

&nbsp;

They use 400 dpi b/c: 1) used it forever so afraid of changing, not worth risk of a change since their aim is already good and used to it, 2) they saw other pros use it so started using it and then #1 becomes true

&nbsp;

It does depend on your sensor though, some sensors will perform better on 400 dpi, but for the PMW 3366 sensor (g403, gpro, g900, etc) it won't make much of a difference as far as the sensor is concerned, but pixel skipping is more apparent on 400 but not a game changing obviously due to how many pros use 400 and 10+ sens
tbh it wont make much difference
It literally could not matter less.
I think 800dpi is still considered "low"

Play around with both and pick what is most comfortable/gives you the best results.

Can the stats on Overbuff be trusted?
I've never played Bastion, so imagine my surprise when he's seemingly my best performing hero according to Overbuff.
Link to snippit of the stats:
https://imgur.com/gallery/CnO1rWith 2 wins? No. It's very easy to do well for a couple games and end up with stats like that. That isn't nearly enough of a sample size to show any stats worth a damn. Play 50 more games and then see where you stand.
Don't trust it until it starts to assign you a quick rank. All statistics are more accurate over a larger data set. It is easy to see amazing results in under 10 games but once that number gets higher you will get a more accurate representation.
I have a similar thing. I played one game of basin where i performed very well. But it makes sense that if i did that good it'd rank me really will considering there isn't enough data to get a reasonable average.
a) bastion is mainly used to troll thus most people have bad stats on bastion making you look good

b) you only played a few games which you probably won

c) stats dont matter whatsoever
Those stats are actually not that good as you might read them. Yes you did high damage. But 55 mins 2 wins could be a 2-3 or even worse. ´

You did die very very often. That´s a sign of low Impact. The high damage propably just came from shieldwars.

Objectivetime on Bastion? You basically were out of Position all the time.

Play him more often and you propably will settle at the 40% your accuracy shows.

Th
[Nope.](https://i.imgur.com/Oxw96js.png)
You missed the part where I tell you that I never played Bastion. The only good thing about that character is the animated short and that damn bird. :) 
You propably were just too drunk to remember.

How do i practice my terrible tracking aim?
I can't track aim at all, it's so horrible, especially close range.
I have used so many different sens over the years high and low and no sens has made me even slightly better at tracking.

My flicking aim is really really good, but my tracking is a complete 180 and it's the reason i get really inconsistent aim with Soldier/Tracer/Sombra etc.

But for some reason, my Zarya tracking or any beam weapon has my tracking be as good as my flicking.What this video. He made a couple of posts on Reddit recently and his drills are really good. I've used it and it helps.
Could be that you just need to train your tracking more or it's something else. Do you have low fps? It makes tracking really hard because enemies kind of teleport a lot (especially at close range) and it makes it hard to track them but doesn't influence flick aiming that much. Do you use the same crosshair for zarya as for other heroes (especially soldier and tracer) and did you turn off bloom? Your tracking should be pretty consistent between zarya and other heroes.
Setup a custom game on Lijiang Tower Night Market, with 1 bot (let's say Zenyatta for now). Turn off all shooting/abilities so the bot can only move. Set bot movespeed to 50% and stand somewhere in or around the point. Then, without shooting, try to track your target. Simply try to keep your crosshair on Zenyatta. For now, you can just aim in his body instead of his head. Analyze how well you're tracking. Is your aim jittery or smooth? Is your crosshair always trailing behind the bot? Or is it always trailing ahead of the bot?

When you feel pretty comfortable with this, increase the bot movespeed by 10% and restart. Continue this until you can reach 100% movespeed and still track really well.

If you get bored of this, set Zenyatta's health to 500% HP and as Tracer try to kill Zenyatta. To measure yourself, try to kill him in 5 clips or less (I think each Tracer clip does around 200 damage? Assuming you land the vast majority of the bullets).

I will say though that the most common cause of inconsistent tracking is due to improper mouse sensitivity. In my opinion, your sensitivity should be catered toward tracking. Tracking should be 100% comfortable because you consider flicking. Flicking is muscle memory and that can be trained, but tracking is not. When you do your drills and analyze your crosshair always being ahead or behind of the bot, this is usually a sign that your sens is too high or too low. 

i.e. if your crosshair is always behind the bot then your sens is too low. If your crosshair is always in front of the bot then your sens is too high. 
Go into the practice and go kill training bits.  Their movement is predictable so learning where to place the crosshairs is a little easier. 
https://youtu.be/Zmbwht8ipz4

Well i asked a really good player Kabaji on stream needing a good pc for tracking and he said yes...

I guess now i know why my flicking is good, but my tracking is really bad due to me playing on bad laptop.
I play with 800 dpi 4.5 sens which is pretty good for tracking.
that audio delay is killing me
Yeah that's probably it then for you. I had a bad pc for a while, and my tracking was decent at long range maybe because you have more time to react and it's more about prediction. But at close range where it is more about reacting it was so much harder to track anything.
If you need help analyzing your aim then I can hop into a custom game with you and spectate you.
Yuh it's bad but the training track in the description and the content helped me

I feel that i'm getting better, but still have no confidence.
Hey guys.
I play Overwatch since season 1, my top SR was 53 back then, and until season 5 i always got stuck in platinum. My career top was at the season 4, 2807 SR. I always thought that something was holding me from climbing to diamond.
For a good amount of time, i thought my team just sucked balls and i would never climb to diamond. But that changed, in season 6. I changed my mindset and just focused on playing my game, not really giving a shit to others, I just filled the role and "ignored" the chat. My placements were 6/4 and i got 2613 SR. I love playing DPS, but i did not play it too much because i think if i let my teammates perform their best, with their best heroes, i should have more chances of winning. I used to main genji, and now i just love mccree and soldier, so i started practicing and improved a lot. I managed to climb up to 3036 SR, which is great. I played a match where i was forced to DPS because their team had a tracer, that was killing our entire back-line. Our DPS just said: i cant kill her, someone else do it please. I picked mccree and suddenly, i started to land way more hits than before, and also countered tracer. I got bronze medals at damage/kills, but i feel i had a good impact in that match, which we won. The problem is: i know im getting better. I have a goal to reach master. But, i don't have confidence to grab that mccree and make a disaster to their phamercy, or to just land good and consistent hits. I know i can, but i feel " unconfident". I don't want to make others lose, if it will be my mistake of not killing their pharah or not dealing enough damage. Sorry for this shitty language/formatation, my class starts in 5 minutes and i am 5 minutes away from it. Any tips?Either pretend like your rank doesn't matter for the first half of the season and play dps and climb the second half, or get a smurf
Confidence within you will come the moment you stop overthinking everything , ull know what needs be done in every situation without actively thinking of it,stop listening to that voice in your head that's telling you "you're not good enough " or " now i should do this because bla bla " and start doing things and focus on them (i mean rly foscus , wich will take effort at first, untill u develope a habit)! you will see improvement immediately! (also apply this in day to fay activity) ! remember this ... the more u think about a situation the more u make it into a problem! 

How should i use Ana's ult?
Everytime I get it, I have no idea who to use it on or when I should use it. I'm not a terrible Ana, but my first game i got accused of throwing because I used it on somebody that i apparently shouldn't have used it on. Any advice?2 things you should consider when using Nanoboost.

Nanoboost gives ***50% damage boost*** and ***damage reduction***. Which means your target becomes a Juggernaut and can kill most things if they can land their shots and survive anything thrown their way if you keep healing them.

Here's a list of heroes sorted by category of who to ult.

* **Offense**

1. Soldier 76: Nano-Visor shreds tanks, DPS, supports, and your woman. Just make sure that D.Va is de-meched and any barrier are down to have maximum effect.  

2. Genji: Nano-Dragonblade, Measure twice, kill in one shot every 200 HP hero.  

3. Pharah: If she can land her shots, her only concern would now be godlike hitscanners.  

4. Reaper: The OG Beyblade.  

5. Tracer: Meh. 50/50-ish. Use it on her only and only if you have no other teammates.

6. McCree: Godlike if he can land crits, otherwise same as Tracer's case.  

7. Doomfist: Other heroes are better. Too soon to tell.  

8. Sombra: Not worth, people pick Sombra for her ability disruption and clean-ups.

* **Defense**

1. Bastion: An El-Presidente Bastion Comp is a cheese strat that works 60% of the time, every time.  

2. Hanzo: #***No.***  

3. Junkrat: No. Unless you're desperate.  

4. Mei: 40/60. Her CC makes her hated, not her damage.  

5. Torbjorn: Nano Molten Core is the most terrifying Midget in Overwatch.  

6. Widowmaker: Same as McCree's case. Better off with other heroes.

* **Tanks**

1. D.Va: Meh. She can't really do damage beyond 20m and you're better off nano-ing other heroes.  

2. Orisa: 50/50. She certainly can shred anything. But she herself have her own ult for that and you have better targets to hit.  

3. Reinhardt: OG Nano. You folks are lucky Jeffe patched out the movespeed. Nano Reinhardt moving at you at the speed of light was the most terrifying thing you've ever played against.  

4. Roadhog: Same as Mei.  

5. Winston: Here's the difference. Nano-Winston: Good Scientist. Nano-Rage Winston: Bad Scientist. That is all.  

6. Zarya: At 40+ energy, Zarya does decent damage. At 70+ energy with Nano? Good-bye Red team.  

* **Support** - Nope. Nada. Nein. There's literally no pro to ult a support because they can't take advantage of Nano and output more damage. Only exception is Mercy when her rework goes through.

EDIT: Forgotten about Sym. Nano-Sym is stronk but she's required to be in melee range to take advantage of her LMB damage.
It depends a lot on the situation. You generally wanna combo it with DPS ults. Soldier, Genji, Reaper, McCree, Pharah, Torb, Bastion, all good ults to combo with. Nanoboosting a godlike Tracer also works, though you're generally better off boosting someone else if you can. 

If it's a big team fight and everyone's close quarters on point you don't necessarily need to combo. Giving it to Winston, Rein, or Reaper in this situation is a good idea. A high charged Zarya is also a good target. If you're just trying to stall the point in overtime then boosting any tank at all works. 

As for when to nano, generally at the beginning of the fight. It's a good initiation ult, and if you're doing enough work, you'll end up with another ult by the next fight. Sometimes I even get two ults in one fight if I have enough tanks to heal. 

And if you boost someone and it doesn't end up doing much, don't let anyone make you feel bad. Nanoboost charges stupidly fast. It's one of those ults that you use within 10 seconds after getting it. 


Ana gets her ult pretty fast. I'll check with my primary DPS targets to gauge if they will have their ult before I'll get mine again. If so I'll hold it and combo with them. 

If the answer is no then I'll use it on someone to help them get their ult faster. If you have a Lucio(or they do not) then Rein is still a strong target just wait until he's in their face already. 

Honestly even without comboing it with another ult the extra damage can push a good DPS player over the edge and secure a fight. 

Best ults to combo it with though in my opinion... S76, genji, Reaper, roadhog, and pharah. 
Its worth remembering dont just nano a genji/soldier/reaper just because its the most optimal choice in general.

As your a healer and in the backline you will see all the team and what they have been doing,if your rein/zarya/winston have clearly been carrying for your team nano them instead as they should get the most value out of it.

Should also communicate to who you are going to boost that u intend to nano them,even its just typing in chat ''Im going to nano you in the next fight soldier'.When an ana boosts you outta the blue you feel compelled to act and make something happen,and this can actually be detrimental to a team fight as people panic and make bad plays.

One thing is key I have found out. Use it, don't sit on it. If you're going to wait for that perfect situation where Genji is alive, full health, and has Dragon Blade up, or the equivalent of any other hero, and you actually being there to provide the boost, you might have to wait for a long time, unless your team is very coordinated. Sometimes it's better to Nano a Winston who can jump in and zap everyone, or a Zarya who has high charge. If you have Nano up, look for the perfect game situation, and then decide who you boost.
Nano builds pretty quickly, so I don't usually hold onto it for too long. I've often gotten nano before anyone else has gotten their ults in the beginning of a match. Characters like S76 can still benefit a lot from an uncomboed nano, and they'll build their own ults that much faster from the extra dmg. 
Whoever you are please don't come in my game. In like ever. 
An exception to these general rules are when you are forced to use nano in order to keep a mission-critical hero alive. That 50% damage reduction combined with m1 + nade should keep most alive, but you should almost never have to do this.
-combo nano with mccree ulti can make the difference between a 4 man and nothing. Its situational

-hanzo ult + nanon is fucking ridiculous, omly if the hanzo is hood and 9/10 times he isnt

-roadhog ult + nano is also very good

-symmetra with charged beam + nano is disgusting

-lucio, mercy are both awful nanos (mercy might be good after the changes we will see)

-zenyata is pretty weak too, like mcree
It always catches me off guard when I get nano'd as Orisa. I even have a 3k highlight saved of me wasting the first second of nano looking around me to see if I just stepped in the way of the intended nano target accidentally.

But yeah, if I do get nano as Orisa I usually try to be big and scary, shredding as much as I can then popping Fortify on top of the nano dmg reduction to absorb as much fire as possible. This fits the way I play by facilitating the rest of the team to clean up.
One thing I've always wondered, does nano-torb increase turret damage? He's nutty himself (or maybe its just so memey its good) but idk bout the turret.

Other than that, what this guy said OP.
>Pharah: If she can land her shots, her only concern would now be godlike hitscanners. 

You forgot Nano Barrage.

> McCree: Godlike if he can land crits, otherwise same as Tracer's case. 

You forgot Electric Cowboy.

>Sombra: Not worth, people pick Sombra for her ability disruption and clean-ups.

Generally shouldn't be your first target but it's a lot better than you think. Her damage is better than people realize and she has a massive clip, so she can get quite a bit of value out of it.

>Orisa: 50/50. She certainly can shred anything. But she herself have her own ult for that and you have better targets to hit. 

She won't always have ult.

>Reinhardt: OG Nano. You folks are lucky Jeffe patched out the movespeed. Nano Reinhardt moving at you at the speed of light was the most terrifying thing you've ever played against. 

Still good with amped speed or if he's just next to the enemy.
Thanks for the list! Helps a lot.
Support: Zen. I've been accidentally Nano'd in the past on Zen, and proceeded to wipe the four remaining team members for a team kill. Discord + regular orbs + Nano is 90dmg per orb, it's definitely worth mentioning in this lineup, but should by no means be a favorable target over the DPS and tanks in your list.
I do NOT recommend doomfist unless the enemy had nothing that's countering him, and if they don't by the time you have nano, it's prob bc the doomfist isn't that great. 

His punch goes from 50-250, to 75-375 and it's on 4s cooldown so he can only get max of 2 during nano. His shots do 99 (16.5x6) and uppercut does 112. This means he can 2 shot any squshie with ease. Most likely get 2 easy kills IFF the enemy dosent have something to cancel any of his abils (creamy/hog/doom/rein). But if they don't at this point it's prob a won fight already and he dosent need it. 

However I would say do it IFF: 

1. It's Ana & doom vs 3 enemy and you can take point (Not just move payload) or if it's vs 4 and doom is good

2. You reallly need an opening pick. He can do a punch+slam+uppercut+1 bodyshot and do over 600 damage. That's any tank dead and if done properly they most likely can't outheal it. (Unless he hits a hog, that's a No go). 


To add to the defense category, do ult anyone you notice in the killfeed alot, but do give them a heads up if possible. (Full scatter does 675 dmg :))

Source on the doomfist insight: am mid masters and climbing with doom/winst. Over 20 hrs on doom w/ 68%wr 
I like using nano defensively, when other team uses ult or when they try to push.
> Sombra: Not worth, people pick Sombra for her ability disruption and clean-ups.
 
You know how tracer does a shit ton of damage but is limited to only shooting for 1 second to due to her small ammo clip? Imagine if she can shoot for 4 seconds straight. That's a nano sombra. Definitely worth if no other DPS are around. 

>Genji: Nano-Dragonblade, Measure twice, kill in one shot every 200 HP hero.

Doesnt nanoblade do 180 damage?
Does nano still speed up Mcree's high noon with the changes to his ult?
Hanzo: #No (unless it's wraxu)

Ftfy 
Nano-zen can actually be pretty terrifying. If he puts out his discord right, he can kill things surprisingly quickly.
Okay, that makes sense. I have tried to quickly nano somebody without warning and it never works in my favor.
With your wildly different attitudes you don't need to worry, they'll have a higher sr than you before long
Is it a problem that I am trying to learn how to play the game?
Clearly this is the proper reply to someone trying to improve and better their gameplay in a subreddit 
>dedicated to helping players improve and learn by providing a place where they can share and discuss strategies or ideas, ask questions

You've contributed nothing with your post, and discourage people from using this subreddit the way it's intended by being a dick to someone seeking help. 

>Grind that hero in qp. Master her to some extent and then play comp. The first couple of things you should learn on ana considering your mechanical skills are decent are. Learning when to anti nade and when to nade Knowing who to ult. (you get 50% dmg resistance from her ult so it can sometimes in sketchy situations be used to keep someone alive.) I have ulted a mercy before to save her from a symmetra just long enough to have her rez my team

that's actually info that is useful. Post more of that, and less of everything else you've said in this thread.
Whoever you are please don't come in my reddit. In like ever.

Sorry, but you apparently don't know how to use this reddit... so I guess you shouldn't come in it.  In like ever.

People ask questions about the game here.  That's the entire point here.  Anyone that's talking down to someone asking legitimate questions to try to improve their game in this subreddit really probably shouldn't be here.

Also, newsflash:  I play a lot of Ana and have found that there are A LOT of "experts" on the character that will want to insult you for all sorts of stupid reasons.  Ult'ing is one of the biggest ones.

Heck, it seems to make a lot of low- to mid-SR'd Anas terrified to even ult, lest they ult "the wrong person."  If you're not sympathetic to that?  THEN YOU OBVIOUSLY HAVEN'T SPENT MUCH TIME ON ANA.

You're just another schmuck trying to pretend like you're an expert while obviously not having the slightest freaking clue to anyone that knows anything at all.  GO AWAY.
At that point, many mistakes were already made and it's a SNAFU. As my favorite Pinopan says, you've pocked up. You're better off waiting for the next teamfight unless it's in overtime.
I assume most people are ignorant enough to believe sym always puts out enormous amounts of damage. But she needs to charge up. There is also no indication for a Ana to say that Sym is charged. And I would never ask for a Nano as a sym.... But you are right a nanoed charged Sym beam is like melting steel with your bare hands.
At higher ranks, High-Nano is just a slightly boosted High Noon. Red team would just find cover as fast as possible.

Whole Hog isn't really that great unless you're playing on KOTH. And other heroes would be better off with nano over Hog.
I am seeing sources that say damage reduction has a 70% cap and that it has a 50% cap. Idk which is true. But if 50% is correct, DON'T use fortify unless you are afraid of being booped/stunned, as nanoboost already gives 50% damage reduction.
Nope. Turret damage is independent of the heroes. Torb is what happens if Reaper, Mei, and Bastion had a Ménage à trois. He's a budget Reaper with his RMB, budget Mei with his 70 damage projectile LMB.
Only thing I know about is nanoing baby dva to boost ult damage from 1000 to 1500
free dash every time, thus basically one hit
Yes.
If you want to nano someone without warning (maybe you didn't have time to type in chat) wait for them to commit to an action. 

The way I usually do it is wait for them to pop ult (soldier, genji, mccree...) and if I can see them, they get nano. If rein has ult and charges headfirst into the enemy team, he gets nano (to help him survive while i try to pocket heal him more than for the damage amplification) Also, I nano DPS to help them get kills, I nano tanks to help them survive.
If someone doesn't know how to use ana ult I don't think they will belong in any higher Sr.
I get people like this all the time. They won't understand. You are a high mighty high elo player I don't expect you to understand.
Oh and ya. I know this because I just saw one of my diamond friends rage quit a game he was playing with me because our mercy was dps only mercy. Said she couldn't use the staff cuz it was difficult to fly. 
No read what I said later. I specifically said if you played her in comp. Not in qp.
You are supposed to learn in qp. You are supposed to use what you have learnt in comp.
I even said that and I quote 'I would apologize to op if he /she implied qp'.
If you did however imply Comp then why learn ana in comp games? Grind that hero in qp. Master her to some extent and then play comp. The first couple of things you should learn on ana considering your mechanical skills are decent are. 
Learning when to anti nade and when to nade 
Knowing who to ult. (you get 50% dmg resistance from her ult so it can sometimes in sketchy situations be used to keep someone alive.) 
I have ulted a mercy before to save her from a symmetra just long enough to have her rez my team. And we ended an impossible game in a draw. 
If you too think I am being a scumbag and a 'schmuk' for asking people to not play heroes in comp which you can't then I don't know what to say. 

I don't understand what's wrong with me wanting to keep players from playing heroes they can't in comp. Omg. Here I thought if only I could maybe just maybe reduce the number of players who try out heroes in comp games people like me can be saved from all the dps mercy's and ana players who ult the hanzo when he ults from spawn (she thought her ult gave movement speed, spicy season 1 stuff). She could have saved it for a nano visor. When I explain it to her I get yelled at saying it does give people movement speed. She raged at the entire team even though no one was toxic and left the game. Stuff like this happens always less with ana and more with mcree (waiting for deadeye potg sextuple kill) and then dying.
So this entire thread is blaming me for not wanting a player like that in my comp game?
Lol I mained ana last season shh. Quite the expert you are! 'your reddit'? If you want something that belongs to you then go elsewhere lol pm the person if you want. I stated a fact. I don't like having players like that in my game.
Was I wrong? Why shouldn't I state that if I ain't wrong?
Before you go on being judgemental let me add one last thing.
You are probably a high elo 'schmuck'. I don't care how good you are at the game or if you are gale adelade or kephrii or whatever. And ya i am no expert. But if someone can't ult on ana then why bother playing ana in comp?
You want to endorse a player who plays heroes in comp not knowing how to play the Frickin hero?
If that's the kind of thread this is then ya sorry mate then I can understand why the last season was such a disaster.

And since I forgot to mention the importance of the game being comp and not qp, I am gonna apologize if it is a qp game op was talking about.

That comment which I made was only directed at competitive play and not quick play. 
I think the biggest skill I need to learn is ult economy: when to save for the next fight or when to go balls to the wall to win this fight.
All you have to do is watch her, anything over 2 seconds is charged enough. Also the beam visibly gets more intense with each level. 
You would be surprised by how much damage whole nano does.
Nano highnoon is very good, it's important for your lucio to speed boost the highnoon so he can get more out of it though.

Example in recent Envyus vs Kungarna game:
https://clips.twitch.tv/DeliciousEnjoyableAlbatrossWoofer

You'll notice how important that speedboost is and how it caught the enemy team offguard while if he had no speed would have probably got nothing.
Yeah I've recently picked up playing Torb on defence on certain maps, he's not always the greatest pick but god damn he's fun to play.
Toxic players don't belong in higher sr either. I would rather have a match with 5 guys like him than just one of you. Learning how to play is pretty quick. Takes a lot longer to stop being shitty
Yeah, I'm not going anywhere near comp yet.
Your attitude is one problem, whether you intend it or not. Look at every other comment in this thread, then look at the stuff you wrote, especially your initial comment. It doesn't contribute anything, and even if they wanted to avoid getting in a game with you, there is literally no way to influence who you get randomly grouped with. 

You also keep saying that OP is practicing Ana in comp; maybe I missed it but I don't see them saying that anywhere. What I do see is OP claiming to have a grasp of Ana outside of how to use her ult most efficiently. I mained Zen until I got sick of S5 and started to learn Ana in QP. It was great for getting used to her aiming and landing sleep darts and such, but 9/10 times QP lacks the proper team composition or cooperation of Comp matches. You can only get so far practicing Ana with 5 dps on your team. Sooner or later you have to go into the "real thing" (aka Comp).
Um... I copy/pasted your quote.

"my reddit" is no more absurd than your statement of "my game."  If my statement sounded stupid... it's because it mimicked your own.

And I wouldn't actually consider myself a "high elo schmuck" - but I do actually think my elo is almost certainly higher than yours!  Why?  Because you sound completely clueless and, also, it doesn't sound like you've ever really thought about looking at your own game and trying to improve YOURSELF.

But, in the meantime, you and your terrible self wants to have the audacity to come in here and criticize OTHERS?  Pffft.  You're only making yourself look lick a schmuck here, mate.  No one else.

Now, maybe you DID main Ana last season and they're all just very forgiving in low-bronze.  I dunno.  But even my nephew's games in Silver have tons of idiots that don't know how to play Ana and are SOOOO insistent on trying to tell the Ana how to play (normally with very bad input, mind you).  

For the record, I actually think Ana's pretty terrible at the lowest ranks even though she's my favorite character and I would suggest you not play here.  No one's grouped together and everyone's trickling and it's hard to have very high impact grenades with her.  My rule of thumb is that if I can't land good nades on Ana then she's only 'whatever.'
Well I know that I play her as filthy Symmetra Main. But sometimes people seem so foreign to her kit and abilities its like talking to polish construction workers.
Caveat being that Lucio actually cooperates instead of doing his own thang.




Does a nano high noon is even faster then the biffed new high noon? Wouldnt that mean instanoon?
I ain't toxic in game. Neither was I toxic here right now. In game I keep my chat muted since last week since I get genji mains who try to hold positions and snipe like widow and the  blame the dva for not Def matrix ing him. And here I stated the truth. If she doesn't know how to use her ult I don't want her in my game. I have my hands full with leavers and throwers already. I don't know why you called me toxic. But ya I don't expect you to be able to understand. 
I am sorry for troubling you. 
If you had taken time to read my other comments you would know I apologized if op meant qp.
And who to ult isn't something in comp play.
You don't have to play hours of ana on qp only to come and ult the mercy or ult hog when genji has his ult and hog doesn't. My initial comment was I don't want her on my team. And I still don't if is comp. Quote this cuz I am sticking by it. Try to prove me wrong as much as you like but fact remains no one wants a player who can't use their ult in comp because they don't know how to. 

Comp is meant for learning team composition, communication, macro play etc. You don't need comp games to know how your ult works. 
Go on assume I am bronze but why shouldn't I play ana again? And why would you assume I can't land shots? The last I checked I simply asked you why you would endorse someone playing a hero they don't know the basics of in comp. I also said I would apologize if the op had implied playing qp.
But nah you are just a guy who can cuss. Seriously man you are so insistent on proving your point that now you are just saying random stuff.
And ya you can say 'this subreddit' instead of 'my subreddit'.
Whereas you can't ask me to say 'this game' instead of 'my game' if it was a game I played in. What am I supposed to say? 'the games where I am one of the 6 players on one team'? Dude get your points straight if you wanna argue about a moot point. Don't make random comments about another player you have no idea of.
Do you see me calling you or the op a bronze scrub?
It's probably condescending people like you who are toxic in comp after you play a hero you can't begin to understand, And then support the cause on reddit. Nuf said.

Edit-
Oh and uhh forgot to add this when did I criticize anyone?
You think my first point was criticism? Do you know what criticism means? If anyone it's you who is criticizing me for God  knows what wrong I have said. 
Yup but being a sym main and an off ana can help ;) except nobody at my elo knows when to go in with sym anyways. A good sym can time it right and run right into an enemy team melting them all, but it requires a lot of gane sense. High elo stuff i guess?
If you ask most lucios will cooperate, just don't assume they'll do it automatically.
It's pretty fast definitely.
I'm actually a little sympathetic here.  It sounds like EVERY teammate you have is a complete moron that throws all your games.  Sounds like hell, man.

But look... if you grow a pair of thumbs and learn how to stop drooling yourself then it gets better when your SR hits the triple-digits instead of single- and double-digits.

I trained my pet lizard to play Overwatch and he hasn't quite hit SR 100 yet... but he's close.  In the meantime, he's also pretty frustrated... but  it's getting better.  It does get better.

Of course... I take all this back and apologize if I misunderstand your comments and you're NOT actually playing with the very worst players in the game and are just a complete d-bag that always blames everyone else for everything.
It's all good.
I did take the time to read your comments, I even quoted you directly from one of them. You still aren't addressing the issue I brought up though, which is that this subreddit's primary goal is to help players improve. Apply your logic of QP vs Comp to this subreddit; you shouldn't have posted in this thread at all, as you weren't meeting any of the criteria that this subreddit was designed for. 

Also throwing in an apology does not erase the wrongness of your comment. I can go into a store and break an item on purpose followed by an apology, but it'll mean nothing, and it won't fix the broken item. 
Your team needs to pressure the enemy team and you need to have luck. Also coming from another angle as your teams helps. Also melt priority. And the art of Sym waltzer dodgeing.
As I said I can understand why season 5 was so infamous. You can't see past your own computer screen. Way to go!
Oh and ya do tell me the species of that lizard you pet. Gonna give it a try and see if it can boost me to your elo.
Would be extremely happy if I get someone in my game who has  a pair of thumbs like you! Honestly I don't know what a thumb is! Gosh what a noob I am.
Then we can trio... Me, your pet and you! And we will call the ana too. It will be fun man believe me. 
What do you want me to do? Uninstall the game? Get my money back from blizzard I will be glad to, as of this moment. Funny how a new early access game like pubg has more going for it.
 Asking for help is meaning less on these forums. The one reply you get is 'get better' and random people cussing at you. The only way to improve the state of ranked play is by making sure people who aren't good enough be told not to play, by that I don't mean someone in bronze to not play rather people who cannot comprehend what to do in comp games shouldn't be playing. Who am I to stop them after all they paid money right? The name of this sub is 'overwatch university'. I don't recall a university sugar coating stuff for anyone.
Any hoo I digress.
I am leaving this thread don't bother replying, it won't do you or me or anyone any good. I have come to the understanding that the fundamental way in which new players approach this game is wrong. I have no hope whatsoever left for this community. This doesn't mean I am going to instalock hanzo and rage on my team, No. I am simply not going to bother helping any new player to the basics of this game. (oh ya it isn't apparent to you but I have before if your small mind can comprehend it! I know it will be tough but just hang on there.) as for your 'throwing an apology', sure it isn't enough how could it be right? After all I disgraced the poor Ana player by saying I don't want her on my team. Awww.

Pointless cause in trying to explain myself to you dumb meat heads. Go climb the ladder and become some gm player and leave me alone. 
Main thing imo is doing it at the right moment. When the right enemies are dead / their abilities are on CD.
I'm just saying, from having a quick look I know your silver, and idk what your aim, gamesense or whatever is like, but your attitude is 100% gonna be the thing keeping you down. You are textbook toxic player, saying your completely innocent, listing bad plays made by recent teammates, and claiming you weren't toxic here even though everyone saw you blatantly be rude without any kind of prompt. To put it nicely, you're an asshole.
Sure. 

As soldier/mccree, how should you position yourself against snipers? also, what if there is no rein/orisa?
I understand highground is always key for a hitscan dps, but when a good widow/hanzo comes into play i find myself impossible to stay highground and quite confused where I should be. especially if there is no rein/orisa on the team to put up a shield.Play more defensively and avoid long sightlines. Being on low ground can be fine as long as you can get into a position where you're safe from enemy snipers. If they have a sniper they also have one less player that might dive you. 

It's generally harder to avoid long sightlines when attacking, so you will have to rely on your teammates to deal with it. Depending on your composition you might want to consider switching.
Take cover, a good Widow/Hanzo is almost impossible to reach at long range. 
Depends what level you play at. You only need to respect them if they're decent.
I tend to get a lot of widow kills playing as soldier. I try to hit her with helix and then pepper her for a quick kill, otherwise in short quick bursts while taking myself out of her Los whenever possible only appearing to shoot her once or twice, making her move or change targets to me, then I disappear. I'll take kills when I can get them but I try to be a nuisance more than anything, using soldiers mobility to change positions. Im trying to make the sniper uncomfortable. Hanzo I struggle more with but getting a thin Los in him( so he can only see a tiny bit of you) and pepper him but don't reappear he will one shot you.
It depends on how good they are. Diamond and below widows aren't really worth a shit and you can pretty much /dance in the open.

Your thoughts on Ranked Team Death Match?
I tried out FFA this weekend and hated. Half the roster feels in viable, and it didn't have that Class Based FPS feel that I love about Overwatch. Shortly after that tragedy I noticed Team DM and gave it a go. Been hooked ever since.

My only complaint about TDM is the total randomness of it; atm it feels like 4 players trying to score kills independently of each other against 4 enemies doing the same thing, and with little regard for the fact that this is still OW, and team comp matters. I feel that a ranked mode would have two benefits. A: Give players a place to play a less objective based version of the game, thus weeding out some of the toxic comp conditions, and B: Help a TDM meta to evolve, which would clean up the arcade version of the game a little. I wouldn't even mind if it was a shared MR between the two forms of ranked play, though others may have different opinions on that.

I would like to know your thoughts on the idea, regarding this or any other TDM issues (such as random respawns, which would need to be fixed) and if you think it likely to happen in the future.I think it's possible, but that's not how the game was meant to be played, so youd see a ton of exploits. A lot of characters go right out the window in terms of viability, and it would basically be a big DPS battle with a tank and healer. 
I'm afraid it will ends into DF dive comp meta. Something into the DF-Dva-Pharmercy
It would be dumb because of the random spawns. Sometimes it comes down to 29-29 and you get an unlucky spawn that either puts you right next to an enemy that blows you up or really far away from your team and causes you to lose when you could have won. There's obviously skill involved and I think it's a really fun mode but comp TDM is just unnecessary.
I really wish they'd implement ranked Settings, top 500 are the people with the best video, audio and control options 
I definitely wouldn't want it mixed in with normal comp, because that kinda goes against the spirit of the game and KOTH roundaboutly works as an arena style fights as is.

That being said I wouldn't be opposed to it having its own league like lucio ball because it'd definitely curb the everyone compulsively dpsing in comp a little bit 
Spawns should be fixed anyway, i.e. no more insta spawn, always spawning within 5m of an ally, and brief invulnerability possibly. Yesterday I respawned inside of a Hanzo Ult, which sucked.
This is the best post.
what?
I'm glad you mentioned KOTH because it seemed strange to me that they weren't included in the TDM rotation, even in trimmed down form.
One of the first games i played on TDM the enemy team just wandered around as a group spawn killing one person at a time so there was almost never an opportunity to deal with it as a team.

doomfist playstyle and positioning help
hey there, ive been trying to improve my doomfist a bit, but i am just a bit unsure as to what kind of playstyle really suits him, i dont have any videos lined up, as my computer cant handle recording and playing at the same time, but if anyone could link some videos or just give advice that would be really helpful :-)Okay so, I don't even play Doomfist in competitive except to practice him on 99% loss situations so take this with a grain of salt but I play him a *lot* on QP for that one day I will have the courage to take him to comp (and when we don't get a Hanzo, Genji and Tracer locked in even though they were last to pick and I locked Doomfist before anyone else picked...)

But Doomfist is a very frustrating hero to play. Sometimes he feels out of place, you could be putting in a lot more work with McCree, even Tracer or Genji. You'll die a whole fucking lot, your hitbox is *HUGE*. Your punches are basically worthless if the map has stairs because you will either a) ghost through or b) not get it to connect for some odd reason.

Those are all the bads on Doomfist. But the good news is Doomfist is balancedish despite being very buggy lately and he can dominate matches like no other hero. The hitbox changed as you might have noticed so going for long range punches is a skill in itself.

So how do you play Doomfist? First thing to remember, he's not a vertical character. Do not think of Doomfist in a vertical plane, it simply isn't a good option unless you're crazy good at predicting his horizontal path and even then it's so awkward you'll miss a lot. Doomfist has to stick to cover contrary to people saying to play him as a flanker - Do not do this. Stick to your tanks. 

The truth is Doomfist is a bodyguard hero than is kind of boring to play effectively. Your job as Doomfist should be to area denial flankers off Supports (he's great at that), to punch front line tanks so you can keep pushing forward and to look for an opening to seismic slam and punch. Play him diligently and be aware of your surroundings.

Some further tips:

* Uppercut should be used primarily for a scouting tool, I like to uppercut to see the enemy team's positioning from a birds eye view. If you see an opening to slam their sole, undefended Ana or Zenyatta take it but don't sweat it - it's fast enough to recharge when you engage next time.

* Risk vs Reward. Your cooldowns are precious, and all your abilities can get you back to your front line. I do this mistake often because the thrill of the kill is a bitch, uppercut + slam + punch on their support will often secure the kill but you'll just feed ult and trade characters. Sometimes this works, more than often it will not since people aren't that organized to profit. So what do you do? Instead of slamming down immediately after an uppercut why don't you land, let your uppercut get off cooldown and just walk up to the victim of your choosing in the chaos, slam, upper cut and shotgun combo using punch to get another kill or get away?

* The shotgun. This is the most awkward part of Doomfist's kit. It's powerful but incredibly awkward. You need practice to master the spread but it's great at close range. I feel that comboing a quick melee with the shotgun often helps me aim better, try giving it a go.

* Practice landing your slams. It's also a very awkward ability but it's incredible for setting up kills or fucking with people's movement. Think of it like landing a plane rather than an immediate ability.

* Abuse your displacement abilities and mobility. Doomfist can get a shit ton of kills in theory, but you know what's really going to fuck with the enemy team? They're going to be behind their Dva matrix, or their Rein shield, or even their intimidating Winston manning the front line, feeling confident they're protected from your Zen's volleys or Pharah rockets. A punch will interrupt that sense of security, while also pushing you forward and doing damage. Or an uppercut. Or any combo of the above.

Essentially Doomfist should be played on the front line with your tanks IMO, occasional flanking will also do wonders if you shake it up. He's opportunistic, he's area denial - he's essentially an assassin. Play him as one instead of a flanker and you'll see results.

And importantly:

*Pick your targets*. Do not take Junkrats, Turret Bastions, Pharahs, McCrees, Meis or Orisa's head on. They *will* fuck you up. He's got more hard counters than any other hero, you need to play around his limitations here and refocus your attention on something else to help your team. Can you punch their support into a wall and get away? Help your back line with divers? Dive that Widow? Punch their tanks away? Essentially keep contributing without focusing on your arch-nemesis. If you can't refocus on any other task that is usually not yours, you need to switch off Doomfist or you're going to be -1 for your team.

The only thing I'm not very comfortable with yet is his ult. I use it to chase down Mercies, Zens or Anas since it usually is a free kill, it's kind of like a worse Junkrat tire in a way. It's good for mobility or great for punch + ult + wait for cooldown + get another kill + jump out. 
doomfist is good at peeling on defense. that means you are good at punching monkeys and ninjas when they try to go for backline.

on attack you wanna look for picks by going in with right click and out with uppercut + E

doomfist isnt that complicated to play tbh.

works best with rein + zarya combos
I play him like an enforcer. If the enemy have a genji, Winston and tracer comp I play one punch fist.
Stay near your healers. Winston and genji dives. Land your fist on preferably the genji, he dies if there is a wall. If not immediately follow up with your uppercut and e to reach him and use your e ability to knock him towards you.. At that range your Hand canons do a surprising amount of damage.
He should be dead by now and your punch should be back up. Rinse and repeat.
 Do's - get some cheeky flanks only when it doesn't end with you dying and/or your team dying, combo your ult with zarya 'space dunk' (I call it that no clue what pros call it), peel for your backline, use your ult for zoning if needed, on offense go in try to get a pick from an angle you won't die instantly die to if you fail you shift and e to return if you succeed than keep punching, land your abilities on heroes it gives you shields and hence survivability. 

Don'ts- don't puch into a rein head first without any escape plan, yes you have a lot of cc but doesn't mean you are tanky like hog or orisa so don't let it get to your head, don't get bloodlusted, don't punch the Winston or rein toward your healers. 

Some guy said I was a '100sr bronze schmuck' here on reddit so take my advice with a grain of salt. 

thank you very much for the advice, ill be sure to try this out :-)
I'll add to this about his ult: it's great for starting a fight or zoning. Use it to initiate into a fight, and even if you only hit 1 or 2 people without killing them your team is likely going to have damage/positional advantage and you will have a nice shield buffer. Alternatively, use it to create a kill zone for squishies. The initial shout-out usually makes people scatter, and the looming audio cue will make people think twice about which way they're going. I've locked choke points for a few seconds by just hovering my reticle over a doorway.
thanks for the tips!

When should I pick or switch to each Tank?
I'm currently a mid-Diamond Support main that fairly often flexes onto Tank (for whatever reason Tank seems to be the least popular role). Compared to previous seasons, it seems like the Tanks are a lot more balanced and the Tank counters a lot stronger. This is making it very challenging for me to determine which Tanks to use.

In addition to seeking general advice on when to pick each Tank, I also have a few more specific questions:

1. Is it generally more useful to pick a tank that pairs well with ally heroes or one that has a more favorable matchup against enemy heroes?
2. With a broader pool of viable Tanks, am I better off specializing in a few Tanks or utilizing them all to stay flexible?
3. If I'm Reinhardt or Orisa and my team is struggling to get kills despite adequate protection, am I better off switching to a more aggressive Tank or focusing on building ult charge?> With a broader pool of viable Tanks, am I better off specializing in a few Tanks or utilizing them all to stay flexible?

Every character has their own strengths, but they fill roughly three roles: anchor tank, mobile tank, DPS tank. I'd pick one each from Reinhardt/Orisa, DVa/Winston, Zarya/Roadhog and start there.
So there is a variety of opinions here but I'll input mine. Some of the things have already been touched on but others not.

To answer your first question, yes for the most part out of the gates you want to pick a hero the plays well with your team. If you see your team is running more dive, then D.va or Winston is a good idea to pick, as they are meta dive. If you're team is running soldier/mcree, ana, then it is most likely better to run an anchor tank like Orisa or Rein since your team wants to play slow and behind a shield. Lastly, Zayra and Hog are DPS tanks and they want to be played whenever you already have a main tank, IE Rein/Winston/Sometimes D.va is already picked. They are good to follow up and help assist a maintank as well as provide extra damage your team needs.

However when you get out of the gates its good to know when its good time to switch. Say you play Winston out of spawn but after the first fight you know they have a reaper or hog who you know is going to shut you down. At this point its better to switch off to something like D.va or Zayra because you would be more "effective on these". Another situation is you run an anchor tank on first point that isn't good on second point, this would be a good time to switch as well. Last scenario, say you run an anchor tank and the other team is running dive, I suggest you switch off to a dive tank, to counter their dive, instead of trying to play a shield comp that won't be able to keep up with a dive (this is a personal preference, but it helps).

Second question, is really up to you. Personally, as a flex player, I like to be able to play all the tanks incase I am needed to play them in any given situation. However this means my effectiveness isn't always on par with my current SR. So if you want to specialize do it, you will get really good with one hero and will be able to carry on that. If you want to diversify, do it, you will be able to play the hero that your team needs in any situation.

Your third question is a case by case basis. Sometimes your team needs help finishing off kills, and if you are on Rein, maybe you aren't on the best hero to do that. Or maybe you are on Rein and your team is being killed too much because your shield is down, and that's why they can't kill anything. So you really have to think about what would be better, playing the hero "better" or switching to a hero that would help out better. This knowledge, like other people have said, comes with time. Play the game more and you will know when it is good to switch. Hope this helps man.

Edit: a word or two
High diamond/low masters flex player here.
D.Va - usually prefer her on defense because if they've got a Pharah (>50% of the time) then you've got the best tank to deal with her, as you don't get second chances on defense. She also gives more protective capability as an off tank than any of the others right now imo. I'd pick her on offense if they're running defensive Pharah, Reaper or double hitscan etc. You want to play her with a more mobile comp (double flanker, soldier etc)

Orisa - don't have much experience with her, but from what I know is she's really strong on static defense (and maybe Nepal Sanctum?) because of her shields. Pairs well with immobile comps and Torbjörn of course. Wouldn't recommend running her on offense. I think she classifies as a main tank?

Reinhardt - bread and butter main tank. Again, want to run him with immobile comps (double hitscan for instance) but he's fairly flexible. You could run aggro Rein if your comp is more mobile, but that requires really good healing and follow-up. I'd pick him if they've got an enemy Rein that seems to land every shatter, and their team is more immobile and unidirectional. 

Roadhog - he's coming back into the meta and he's just a good off tank for pick potential, assuming your team follow up on kills or you can select targets that aren't full HP well. He's good if you're running solo heals imo, because he alleviates a lot of healing pressure from the healer. He's good for peeling if they're running dive (considering your average solo q won't be coordinated enough to run it smoothly). Don't waste your hook though, and play more with your team. Works best with Rein imo.

Winston - been maining him this past season. You want to create space for your team as the main tank. Just remember, if your team doesn't follow up and you jump in balls deep, you're probably gonna die. Works best with mobile comps and if they've got a Genji that's wrecking your team. Don't expect to kill him if he completely out skills you, but you can just sit on him and make his life hard. Also please don't poke unless you have a soldier/ranged hero. Quite often I see teams just poke at the choke running dive and it drives me nuts.

Zarya - my most played tank. Strongest ult in the game, really good on offense. Play her in stages - building up charge, building up ult, using ult for team wipe (or at least 3 or 2 with mercy). Works better with mobile comps because she can bubble Winston and flankers. Still viable with Rein if he knows how to get charge for you (saw a video of xQc going ham with Zarya on Hollywood - he used this tactic a lot). Imo she doesn't have as much peel potential as D.Va though. 

As for your questions,

1) At the start of the round pair with allies. If they don't attempt to synergise with you swap to countering the enemy team.

2) It's generally better to specialise in a few, but I can play nearly all and that's really helpful as I can adapt to many situations. Start off with a few, like Winston and D.Va, and then expand.

3) If they aren't utilising your shields, it's probably better to swap as it'll take way longer to build ult charge if the team keeps dying. 

Hope this helps.

 

if you have plenty of heals be aggressive as rein, he is extraordinarily impactful when played well. you will by extension build ults very quickly and you can win fights for free with shatter
Tank Main here. I am just going to copy and paste a comment I made on a similar topic, involving my personal plan for what heroes to swap to:

-------

Example of a plan: Let's say I am running a tank slot, in a relatively divey team. My first choice would be to play Winston, as Winston is one of my strongest tanks and is exceptionally good in a divecomp, even at times as a solo-tank.

When do I swap off of Winston? I swap off if the enemy is running at least two counters to me, and those counters are doing an effective job (Winston's main counters: Reaper, Roadhog, Zenyatta, Torb, -plus a few smaller counters); Or, I swap off if the enemy simply isn't running enough vulnerable squishies for me to get full advantage of Winston.

What do I swap to instead of Winston? Being my team is running a divey composition, I would either want to swap to Dva or Zarya. Zarya works best if the enemy is dealing heavy dps, if the enemy is going deathball, and if I have decent ally targets to put my barrier on. Zarya also requires another main tank, both to protect the team and to give Zarya something to charge off of. Zarya is also especially good if I have something proper to combo Graviton with. If those statements aren't true, then I swap off of Zarya.

What would I swap to then? If the enemy is running too heavy of dps for Winston to succeed, and Zarya can't fit do to the aforementioned concerns, then I would consider swapping to DVA. Again, since my team is fairly divey Dva makes for a strong choice that can dive on enemy targets with her team, and can hop from teammate to teammate shielding them even in a spread out comp. If the enemy has heavy DPS such as a reaper, pharah, bastion etc, Dva is exceptionally useful.

When would I swap off of Dva? Again, I need to pay attention to Dva's counters: Zarya, Symmetra, aggressive Reinhardt, Winston, Zenyatta, Roadhog. I'll be honest, Dva is one of my newer tanks so my exact plan for her is still developing, but I would probably instant swap if the enemy is effectively running two of those counters, or if DVa simply isn't able to get value out of her defense Matrix by blocking any major damage/ults. At the point where DVa is no longer effective, I might have to reevaluate the enemy's changes to see if Winston is once again a good fit.
I would also have plans for when to swap to reinhardt, but that mainly comes down to "is my team running something that can value from a rein, such as a deathball comp?", "Would rein be able to get proper value out of his barrier?" There are also plans for when to swap to different roles entirely, but that list starts getting more complicated and depends much more heavily on what my teammates can play, and I've written a lot already.

-------

/copypaste

That plan was mainly in a divey team. Three tanks I didn't mention: Reinhardt, Roadhog, and Orisa.

- When to pick Reinhardt: Is your team running a deathbally team? Then 9/10 times, you need a Reinhardt. A really good Orisa might work instead of Reinhardt, particularly on defense, but again, most of the time Rein is better. If Reinhardt has no teammates to stay behind his shield, however, he might go underutilized and be best swapped for something else like a Winston.

- When to pick Roadhog: (I don't play much Roadhog, so my opinions might be flawed); Hog has gotten a lot of flack lately, but I still believe there is a place for him in the meta. Pick him if your team already has a main-tank (reinhardt, orisa, winston), and if you believe you can be very good with both hog's hooks and his gun; if you aren't great at either, it might be best to skip over hog from the gitgo.

- When to pick Orisa: (I don't play much Orisa, so my opinions might be flawed); Orisa can fill a similar role to Reinhardt, but with a few differences; 1) She is a lot less mobile, 2) her weapon has a much longer range, but drastically less close-range accuracy, 3) her barrier isn't mobile. Avoid Orisa if the enemy is running a divey team, Orisa gets eaten alive by dive heroes, if a tracer or genji get on her, unless she has godlike projectile aim or an antidive teammate protecting her, she is toast. Orisa is much better on defense than attack, on attack often reinhardt works better. Note you can sometimes combo Rein and Orisa, for essentially infinite barriers.
[deleted]
In my eyes, Winston and D.Va are still universally useful no matter what comp. Reinhardt if your team needs a shield to stand behind, ie soldier/mccree. Orisa on defense if you're running torb cancer comp. Hog if you like losing. Zarya if you're actually good with her. 

1. I like to pick tanks that are good into the enemy team. ie winston into easy to dive supports/bad flankers. Sometimes your team may need you to play something that they need, ie d.va because tracer is killing your supports or something. 

2. I would play whatever heroes you feel comfortable on. For me that's most of the tank pool, but if you specialize in one or two you'll probably be fine because there's not many tank players.

3. It depends, it could be because your DPS sucks. Depending on the situation different tanks may do better, its hard to say without a specific example, but usually it isn't a good idea to swap off if you're like 60%+ on ult.

If you'd like you can record your gameplay and I could look over it. Let me know if you're interested.
A lot of tanks work in different situations. If you feel like a switch is helpful in a stalemate, go for it. 

I've played Winston into a Reaper on the other team because I could protest my healers from Genji and run away from the reaper. In general I've found that picking against the enemy team is more useful than synergy with your own team. The other team is inflexible and has people who won't switch, which is why I say that.   Counters> synergy
1.  Masters flex, mostly tank/support.  I choose tanks and supports based mostly on map/team composition.

For payload/most 2 cp, generally always reinhardt,  if second tank, I choose what i need based on situation, if there is high ground, its generally dva.  Roadhog/zarya are good if you have weak healers, or you are a independent tank carry.

Koth: generally roadhog/zarya + 1 dive tank either winston/dva.
2.  Being broad and specializing are both viable.
3.  Focus on staying alive, especially if you are the anchor tank

Rein likes people who will use his shield and as a bonus, protect him a bit (Soldier, Mcree) and he's good on 2nd point of 2cp or last point of payload because when the enemy is trickling in, a giant hammer will kill them fast, plus his ult is tremendously useful.  Rein is great when you need to counter their shield too.  Rein is good all-around.  However, Rein is weak against stuff like Junkrat (mines bounce you around, shield gets annihilated), multiple flankers (they ignore the shield), and Roadhog (lots of shield damage even despite the nerf, plus hook will whip you around BUT Rein may be a necessary evil, because otherwise people might get hooked even moreso without it).

Winston is good on offense in general, but even on defense he can be good, such as to answer a Genji, or if your team can capitalize on you jumping the backline.  Winston is also great if Junkrat or another hero is just causing too much trouble for Rein to work.

Orisa is really good on tight chokes because she unleashes so much raw damage and spam on the enemy.  She's not very mobile which makes her more suited to defense, HOWEVER she is very vunerable which makes her more suited to offense (i.e., on defense she doesn't create as much space).  But her shield blocks more than Rein's will, given the short cooldown.  Orisa has some profound strengths but her immobility and huge hitbox are major weaknesses.
I typically pick my tank based on the game and map. For example I do really well with Reinhardt on Payload, given his stalwart slow progressive mobility. Also for maps with a tight choke it helps having that barrier to slowly creep past the choke. For Control or King of the Hill I prefer Zarya personally, to be able to be more directive in what and who gets protected. For Hybrid maps I even sometimes switch mid game, Zarya until we cap, Reinhardt for the Escort bit.
now. now. switch. 

why haven’t you switched?

you’re throwing


REPORTED!!!
Hey OP, check this out : https://www.reddit.com/r/Overwatch/comments/3kq4h0/hero_role_analysis/

I found this thread pretty useful when I was wondering which tank (or hero in general) to play. 

Also, 1. The tank is the foundation of a team, so I would say focus on synergy rather than counters

And 2. IMHO in a game like this, you're ALWAYS better off learning all heroes rather than specializing. If you only know how to play Winston and your team needs an anchor tank, you're screwed.

I hope that was useful ! 

I can only give you the simplest advice. Experiment. Try things out, see what works. Experience will always trump random advice from the internet.
This reminds me of a very memorable game I had last season with a trolling rein on my team. All he did was walk towards the enemy team and swing his hammer. I went Zarya and someone else went ana and we pocketed the shit out of him and absolutely stomped the enemy team. At first everyone was salty because we thought this rein was throwing but after working around him we had the enemy team pushed back to spawn. It was the funniest thing I've ever seen in overwatch. Dude had fat shatters almost every teamfight.
Why would you play Reinhardt if your team is running a comp based on mobility? This is not good advice at all
Winston?
Rein is for mobile deathball comps with at least one ranged DPS; Orisa is for static defenses and maybe payload attack and synergizes well with Bastion/Torb.

Zarya works in any comp (good in dive because she provides the dive with sustain while powering herself up). With her it's more about hero synergy (e.g. is there a Doomfist, Hanzo, Genji, etc). 

Dva is anti-spam/anti-hitscan/peel and can offer much needed verticality. Winston also works as a Genji counter regardless of comp.
> Rein: When our team is fast moving/ more mobile (having heroes like Lucio, Genji and DVa)

I'm not sure about this. If my team were running a more mobile comp, I would generally rather go Winston.

Reinhardt I would pick if my team is running a slightly slower/more meticulous comp, but not so slow to make me consider Orisa.

>Zarya: When our team needs a second tank and is less mobile

Zarya can work fairly fine on a more mobile team, providing barriers to her diving allies; What is more important when choosing Zarya is, is the *enemy* running a less mobile team or not? Zarya excels at fighting deathball teams, but flounders hard when fighting dive teams, as she can't build charge against a dive easily.
I can't think of any situation when I want an Orisa over Reinhardt. If you're hunkered down protecting a choke, Rein and Orisa make a great team, but "Reinhardt, please switch to Orisa" is not a phrase that has ever been uttered. 
A couple games playing Rein last night and the new junk just wrecking me. He seems to be getting a lot more play due to the buffs and it's a struggle for sure, bouncing around as Rein is frustrating.
Wow you should just copy/paste this to every single post in this subreddit. It's so helpful.
Obviously you need to try things for yourself, but learning from others' experiences does make things way faster than doing your own arbitrary search of the possibility space. That's... kind of the central principle of academics: learning from the recorded knowledge of others and then building on it.
None of it is really.
Harrass an enemy squishy comp
It's always time for Winston.
Winston is good at killing characters like genji hanzo widow sombra tracer and all support heroes so yeah that
Zarya is kinda bad in dive :( because of the burst damage it's hard to maintain and build charge. Plus dva is just so much better at protecting supports which is one of the most important things in dive.
It's September, it's been a while since Orisa was average. She's got a HUGE shield on lightning fast cool down, can help out with a number of mobile threats with her new firing rate, immobile to CC, bsst displacement tool in the game - the only part of her kit weaker than Reins is her ult which is ass and needs to be reworked.

Nowadays I'll take an Orisa over Rein most matches - provided Orisa knows she can make a new anchoring position every 7 seconds and moves forward. 
Orisa is a lot better than rein for cheese comps, like with torb/bastion especially. Since Orisa doesn't have to be standing right in front of the turret, if it gets pulse bombed or otherwise jumped you're not sacrificing her along with the turret or bastion, whereas rein will probably get caught in it too. She's good now outside of cheese too, but she's perfect for protecting stationary structures at a safe distance.
That's because Orisa is not a solo tank. She's a secondary tank and needs a primary (Rein, Winston, Zarya, D.Va) to support her.
I can tell you exactly when you need orisa over rein. Whenever you think your team is too dumb to correctly use shields. I've been in a few games now as rein where I find myself usually dying while the team over extends, And I'm left without any real dps or survivability. 

Orisa, though, has both the shield and dps, plus good CC. I usually pick her (or swap to her when we're losing) because I can more easily hold a choke until the dumbfucks on my team realize they should stand in a group instead of throw themselves into the point/payload one by one. 

Rein is better in some cases, because his shield is so reactive and positionable. But sometimes your team is just too dumb to use it, or if you need the extra consistent dps, e.g. if you one have one or no hitscans, or no zenyatta as a dps healer, etc.

Orisa I think is coming into place, And I was doing work with the 8 second shield buff. Now that the shield is also bigger, it's only up from here. 

(I play silver/low gold, so that's got something to do with dumb teammates, I'm sure)
honestly it's something that a lot of people forget to do. Even if it's very obvious to you, not everybody does it.
that is true, I was not trying to say that other people's opinions are useless. I was just trying to say that trying things out is an important part that many people forget to do.
Fine then, deleting advice. Sorry I gave my advice and it wasn't up to scratch
Okay, maybe I need to give her another shot. 

In my experience, if I'm healing and my allied tank is Orisa, I can't expect a safe "pocket" like with Reinhardt. If I'm Reinhardt, I will just push through an enemy Orisa's shield and go MC Hammer on her ass.

But I'm bronze, and the probability that neither I nor my opponent has any clue what we should be doing is high. The game isn't really balanced around potato mechanics. 
Any Orisa you do that to is either significantly distracted already or a bad Orisa. I eat gung-ho Reinhardts for breakfast.

Is genji not nearly as good as he was last season?
I can't tell if I'm just playing bad, having bad luck with my team or what. But on my ult account where I usually Play genji, I can't win with him. Not constantly at least. Is the new junket meta making genji far less effective, or am I just in a slump? Genji hasn't changed at all. It's just that the meta is gradually shifting to anti-dive because dive was too prominent last season.

Roadhog is prime farming material for Genji, so take advantage if the enemy team runs him.

The rise of the cancer meta. Is it a thing?
It seems to me that the current meta in plat is actually going towards a cancer comp. I'm talking about something like Torbjörn, Symmetra, Junkrat, Mercy, Orisa/Rein Dva/Zarya + a pretty standard DPS like Soldier or Reaper.  This is especially true when a team is defending a point in some way. Do you guys also feel like this is happening? How do you play against it?just dont go at him when he faces you , you should be able to one clip him , be annoying in the back .. as long as they have to be concerned about smth lurking in their back line , they wont focus 100% on the front line ...so it's allready an advantage for your team! kills u get are bonus to that ! priorities staying alive with her over kills! 
this is only a problem in lower ranks because the tanks suck there. if you lose a game on 2cp maps with a spammy chocke, 8 out of 10 times you lose this because your tanks dont go in. if you play vs torb orisa you just jump the turret and shield with winston and everyone will focus/turn around on you. thats when your team is supposed to go in. dont give them time to set up again.

sym: very easy to kill, no movement option, just clear turrets with tanks

orisa/rein/zarya: cannot deal with winston whatsoever, kill them at the end if possible

dps: try to kill those due to the lack of solo heal

the solo support: hard focus this player, if he dies you should win easily

Learn to play tank well or pharah.
Well, the dive DPS absolutely wreck bunched up comps like that, zarya is the only tank that can really handle the damage being thrown at you and turn it into a positive for your team, the other tanks simply prolong the time in between massive amounts of damage killing your team

Ultimately the best option against it, is going something like Winston/tracer/genji/zen/zarya/ 2nd healer and play around the pulse bomb to eliminate the bastion/torb/orisa and surrounding enemies (especially since those comps love to bunch up together), grav/blade, or playing around transcendence to initiate the fight, making your team invincible and killing stuff that way

Bonus points for a Sombra if you feel totally outmatched as a support, she's viable. But you don't necessarily need to run traditional 2/2/2 into defensive comps because they aren't countered solely by meta comps
There is usually no tanks in plat anymore. Might be why this happens a lot in plat now. Basically everyone is a DPS main or healer main with some people flexing to tanks if needed.
I really like to play Tracer but find it really hard to play against Junkrat. Mainly cuz I get random one shot a lot and he kills the whole team with his ult a lot so then you just have to wait for them. The bomb is good against it, I usualy try to bomb the tele but I always die in the process from the 6 turrets around it. Maybe you need the whole comp you suggested.
lower ranks is diamond for me too, plat and diamond is very simlar. 

lack of tank and tanks not going in is a different thing though.

Interrupt doomfist ult?
Theoretically speaking, if I was hog, and I had a godly timed hook, could I snatch DF out of the air before he makes impact? Maybe I'll test it if I can get a friend to hop on with me but if anyone knows anything all info is appreciated. :) I've got pretty decent timing with Ana, I have used sleep dart so many times and it's very likely I've missed every one, but I'm pretty sure you can't stop it
Junkrat traps work great 
Nope. Invincible for from when he goes up until landing
You can't. 

But you can heal a teammate enough they don't die, or you can speedboost them out, or cry. 
no you cant, you need to wait until he lands on the ground. you cant hit him, nobody can.
I think you cant stop him.. What you can and what I do is charge him as soon as he landed. 
This is like D.Va Mecha-transitions. It isn't till the character can move that the model exists. Though in theory, the moment after impact he's vunerable. 
This is correct.  Even after he hits the ground there's a short delay where he's invulnerable.
Can confirm. Doomfist can't be stopped from the moment he pressed Q. Also shot a lot of sleep darts until I figured out it's better to keep it until he lands. 
He destroys the traps upon landing. Dunno if I put the trap exactly in the center though.
Only lucio ult can "outheal" them to where they don't die, and that is only because they provide shields. DF ult kills through transcendence
Is there any visual cue for the exact moment his invuln ends after landing? It bothers me that I can see him and all but I have to just hold off attacking for an arbitrary length of time. That along with how he can charge his punch and snap change his direction at the last second irk me for clarity reasons :/
Because he's fair and balanced obv.
Yep, you can test this with Winston, if u make doom fall onto winst your bug zapper won't start hitting anything until the time he hits the ground 
That is what I have been doing, make sure I get out of the center of impact, and then as soon as he lands dart him. Can't do much more than that.
Ehhh, not really. .


Ive had plenty of times that I died as doomfist and my body was all blue and glowy because I pressed my ultimate but they just killed or stunned me before I was truly in Meteor Strike mode.
On their end I didn't probably invulnerability frames yet so they could still hit me etc :/

Tl;Dr: Latency can kill the Q tap.
You have to sacrifice yourself so the trap is still in the air when he lands so it lands right at his​ feet after
Certain characters you can save, since doomfist ult doesn't do 600 damage. Others like Mcree is a no I guess 
Reminds me of having to time sleep darts against ulting genjis right to not refund his ult.
I think it's when he looks like normal as opposed to being coloured red or blue. 
Good intent but bad method.  Concussion mine to high ground or air + well aimed trap should do it if you really wanted to just trap him and not kill him for whatever reason

If you suicide revenge kill him and he got any of your team in the strike he's the one going positive.

I'd say leave the circle of death and throw your mine so it's in the air when he lands and you can punish him hard.  You can't stop it but you can sure as hell nuke him after, concussion + nade, or nade spam in general
I didn't know that was even a concern, and I killed a Genji twice in a row the other day as he was starting his ult, and he came back a third time and used his ult again.
Do I need a certain setting higher to see that? Granted I haven't seen tons of Doomfist ults but I don't recall him being a different colour at any time.
https://youtu.be/yauqHBRwc8I
At 1m and 38s you can see him shine up in blue.

Question about group/team chat settings for comp
I usually queue for comp in a duo or trio these days, and I've had both group and team chat set to "auto-join". I'm having a problem in Season 6 where my group decides to join team chat at the start of a comp match, and then I get dumped back into group chat at the beginning of round 2. I frequently fail to notice this and end up in a frustrating situation where I think I'm talking to the whole team but I'm only talking to my duo partner. (Not infrequently, we're the only ones talking, but others are listening, so it's not always immediately apparent that something is different.) 

I don't recall having this problem in Season 5, so I don't know if the behavior has changed, or if I'm just misremembering / didn't realize that I was dropping out of team chat in later rounds last season.

I find the chat settings to be fairly confusing and don't know what the expected behavior is supposed to be for a given selection. The behavior I would like to have is:
* automatically join group chat when I'm grouped (in and out of matches)
* option to join team chat on the hero selection screen at the beginning of the match
* stay in whichever chat I chose (group or team) for the duration of the comp match without having to make an explicit selection again in subsequent rounds

Is there any combination of settings that will give me this behavior?

Edited to add: I'm on PS4, in case that matters.It appears as of today that this is happening to me as well on PC...
So your recollection is that this behavior did not occur previously? I've been trying to figure out if I was just clueless last season and not actually in team chat for entire matches like I thought.
Seconded

If you cant hit sleepdarts with Ana this custom game is a fun way to practise it!
TLDR: Basically paintball type of game but just with sleepdarts

Heroes: just Ana

Primary fire, nade and melee = disabled

No scope = enabled

Damage done= maximum

Health = minimum

Sleep dart cooldown= 2 seconds

----

Here how it looks like in game: https://youtu.be/W7Zrlt29cSo

If youre more than 5 people Château Guillard is good but if youre 4 its too big for it. Other arena maps are better thenOne thing that really helped me is changing sleep to right click and ADS to shift.
I highly suggest checking out my [sleep dart guides](https://www.youtube.com/user/Shizuyumi/) as well if you're interested in learning more about the art of sleep darting.
I hit her sleep dart more than I hit her with her rifle.
> No scope = enabled

No scope's needed?
My only issue with this is you're training yourself to hit ana who are also trying to dart you, it just seems too situational to be constructive practice. I think there is a lot more game sense than aim skill behind effective darts.
[deleted]
[deleted]
Getting slept constantly is not fun
> ADS to shift.

Is that scope-in? I have no clue what you're talking about...
Rather use mouse 4 button to sleep dart. I need right click to for quick scope with toggle scope function on. 
Oh yeah, good idea! 
Did the same thing with widow, holding right click when scoped changes how i hold the mouse and Its not how I regularly aim. Changing it helped  me be more consistent 
You know I changed to this for like 2 months and I thought it helped me. I certainly felt like I was hitting more sleep darts but I also felt like my mobility struggled because when I hit LDS with shift I couldn't move as easy as I could with it on RC. Don't know if anyone else has experienced this.
It's the same thing i did on the first day that ana came out. I think it's way better for both actions
Nice.  Thank you!
Vs hard ai mode, my friend
I think it just means you can't scope in
It's half-and-half - I can *know* that the tracer will likely blink somewhere or a tank will be rounding a corner in a second but I still need the technical skill to land the dart where I expect them to be.
I think this is more to get accustomed to the travel time and the mechanics of the sleep dart
It's the next best thing to a real match, training is usually flawed in some aspect but can still be useful to improve.
Yeah of course nothing can beat playing in actual game but this helps getting used to delay-projectile speed etc.
Which is why they're practicing lol

E: OP's comment: " lmao they didn't hit a single dart in the video" 
I take you didn't watch the video but decided to comment anyway.
I mean, he's not wrong
Yes. Aim down sights.
Aim down sight
There's a setting for widow so you can toggle the scope in so you don't have to hold rmb
I tried to make a joke off of one of Ana's voice lines, "No scope needed."
fair enough
I'm fun at parties i swear

Youtube recommendations?
Hi, trying to up my game and looking for pro players to watch. Don't have time to watch lots of Twitch streams but 2 channels have been very useful for me so far: ProLikeChro (Junkrat) and Valkia (Pharah). The matches are commentated and I can consume one while eating breakfast or just killing time (15-20 mins) and there's plenty of regular content.

Does anyone have any other recommendations for similar channels?

Doesn't necessarily need to be a super high level player but I'm just interested in watching players talk through their thinking while they play. In Chro's videos he'll explain why he is holding a particular point for example so instead of a tutorial that just tells you to do A or B its helping me start being more mindful while playing.

Edit: just wanted to add that I am open to watching Twitch streams but the ones I've checked out so far have tended to be someone just playing the game and recording themselves. If you follow any streamers who do a bit more than this e.g. commentate their thought process or have specific sessions where they focus on a single hero and give a crash course on them then I'd be really interested in knowing about them. Thanks.
Dibz (tracer) and Borium (soldier) are good for your crash course kind of liking
I really like [OneAmongstMany](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCvKqy6-GzhIgJCVcE2nn8nQ). His "Coaching the Many" VOD reviews are quite indepth with tons of pausing, rewinding, explanations, etc and he covers pretty much all the heroes in the game.
Fitzyhere has a good series on Sombra, really upped my game with her
Great thanks
Thanks i will check him out :)
I am a complete Sombra novice so thats great, cheers

Overwatch is advanced rock, paper, scissors
I am a diamond/masters level-fill player. For those of you in lower tiers, the key to winning and advancing in this game is flexibility. Overwatch is just advanced rock, paper, scissors. You need to have the ability to throw paper when the team is throwing rock.

I always pick my character last and try  to help the team as best as I can. During a match yesterday as a solo healing mercy, our team was getting wrecked by a Winston. For three rounds on King of the Hill, two of our three dps were genji and tracer. They weren't using comms and they refused to adjust to the game's win condition. We got destroyed.

I am begging all of you. No matter how much you like one character please look at the game as rock, paper, scissors and adjust your picks accordingly.

Also use comms.Even in GM, I find counterplay so much more useful than counterpicks. You oversimplify the game by pretending it's rock-paper-scissors. Pharah doesn't counter a good Junkrat, Winston doesn't counter a good Symm, McCree doesn't counter a good Tracer, Orisa doesn't counter a good Doomfist. 

Counterpicks can be useful, but don't throw away the option of countering through skill and playstyle instead of flexing.
I respect your insight but I disagree. Pharah absolutely counters a good junkrat. Playing junkrat and reaper against. Pharmercy is only setting your team up for failure.

I don't disagree with you in that skill and playstyle are very important but certainly not more important than making picks that will have the most positive impact for the team
Your close but the above poster is technically more correct.

Beating pharah isnt about switching off junkrat. Its about how your team manages to make junkrat remain effective.

In a basic game sense yes its rock paper scissors.

In higher level play that will rarely come into play as youll begin to notice synergy with your team is the key. 

Dont forget this is a 6v6 and outplay with some of your strongest picks will always be better than just switching to something your just mediocre at.

I.e

Your defending and they have a pharah you have no hitscan.

Its not gg because junk cant reach her. You could play corners pulling them into junkrats turf or you could simply choose to tackle the ground units and force pharah off later.

We arent even remotly close to maximizing the full potential of our picks. Dont trap yourself into thinking one dimensional. Be open to new strategies or diffrent ways of playing a fight.

Your not wrong but honestly i can say your not correct ethier.

Some say triple tank sucks. But suddenly if you play it to its advantages and get aggresive youll notice that speedboosted rein hog zarya coming your way arent so "weak" anymore. The solution MAY be to throw dive at it. What if your current team doesnt run it well. What if your team does run it well but you got outplayed?

This game isnt simple and looking at it so flat will unfortunatly hold you very far back.


This is really interesting. I didn't expect to get so many more experienced players disagreeing with me. What advice do you guys have? What do you suggest when I am caught in a situation where few people are using comms and no one is switching?
Pick the best hero that you think will have the greatest impact. In this situation things will look grim. Choose carefully.

A tracer pick COULD carry but it may be to much .

A d.va could ENABLE solo dps from getting picked.

A roadhog could be just enough distraction to allow them room if your careful. And early or well timed hooks could snowball.

Every hero can provide something. A small impact on your very strongest pick could be a HUGE momentumn swing that your entire team needed.

And sometimes it will not be enough. Whats important is your learning to think critically about your BEST picks and your learning to outplay. These moments will teach you so much more than a vod review can.

And even if you lose youll realize you swung the momentumn this will teach you shot calling. How to position. How to clutch and most important of all teach you to accept the picks your team has made and to trust them to be okay when you make a mistake.

Those moments are the very best for learning.
Pick a character you can do shotcalls with.

Even if they are playing solo without coms they do want to get kills and win. And that might even be an good example for Junkrat. You might have tough chances to hit the PM but any good hits you do get make the Person you hit near dead. Call X onehit and they might follow up. 

But I would say it´s as much on as what has your Team as it is what got the others have?

Initiating Conversation in comp
This may be kind of a dumb question, but what's a good "opener" to get people to talk in comp matches? Just saying "hey guys" or even suggesting team comp doesn't ever work for me. I'm tying to climb out of silver and the lack of coordination just kills games. Any suggestions??

Edit: thanks for the responses!"Hey, how's it going?" seems to work okay. I think it works decently because it invites a response.
I find that berating teammates works best.

-most people on mics
I normaly initate with "Reaper behind please help!"
I honestly find it weird when people just pop in at the start and say "hey guys. What's up?" My perspective is they usually sound kind of awkward. I typically shot call so I try to sound confident and a little over the top. 

"Hey what's up my dudes? Everybody ready to win tonight?"

Let people get in some words maybe joke about other players' names. If someone has an off-meta pick that they lock in I typically jump all over that and try to get the team hyped up to play around it. I'll often also single out the player who isn't talking and interact with them by emoting and such. 

From there I just go into gameplan stuff. 
I've been going in doing my best Morty impersonation, it's pretty spot on (or so everyone tells me, it's good enough that people immediately recognize it) it breaks the ice really fucking quick
Seems like you got some good answers already, but I hope to add on a little with my own experience.

I never talk in-game (I don't have a functioning mic) but I do listen to people. In general, a simple "hello" suggests that you will be talking throughout the game, but doesn't really do much beyond that. "Anyone got a mic" is also pretty common and from the responses you can get a sense of who can actively talk during the game.

If you don't get a response/no one is willing to talk, don't be bummed out. It happens lol and honestly people don't really think of it much. Just do basic call-outs, which are always useful. Especially when getting out of lower tiers.
1. When you join ask a "what's up" don't talk if no1 responds. 

2. Before doors open on attack, give the team a plan (let's go right side; let's plan on going up top, then change plan as we see what their setup is; hey genji let's stick together -im doom- and u dash my punches for an easy anus destroyer strat)

*protip: in lower ranks where generally younger audience is it might be cool to drop a potty humor joke once in a while, but don't overdo it. 

3. Keep giving callouts even if you're the only one in VC, it will help you with your own gamesense as well. Who knows who is listening to you and just don't have a mic to communicate

4. If there's 0 communication after a min or 2 of gameplay ask if people can hear you - It's acting time: act like you're not sure if it's your game that's broke or ur just the only one in comms. You might  get 1-2 ppl to say something or put in chat to keep the calls going bc it is helping them. 

5. If no1 is responding, there's 0 teamwork, you know you are playing your best but your team isn't following through. You now have permission to stop giving calls and just play casually (accept the idea you might lose, and just play it slowly, maybe use your team as bait and when you see an oportunity to secure a kill or take point then do it)

Hope this helped, I'm a master's player and have 2k hrs in csgo + 1k in OW and know how to lead a team (even though my plans don't always work)
"So, anyone else naked?"

(I started typing that as a joke but now I might test it)

I generally start out with "hey guys, how's it going?" or "alright guys, no pressure, but I've won every game I've played today" (said jokingly, obviously, don't try this if you can't sound friendly!) or "alright guys, it's been a shit morning, who's looking to carry me to victory?"

I like making jokes. On attack? "Yo, I'll go Hanzo, now we need a Widow, a Torb, and a battle Mercy to defend Sym's turrets."

If someone is being kind of a prick to someone for a pick they don't like? My go-to line is "choose whoever you feel comfortable playing, we can switch it up if we need to."
Tell them you're a girl.
Do you even have to initiate anything? Just start talking whenever you want.
Most people in plat just say a quick 'hey guys' and then immediately start talking about the game (usually team comp since 3-4 dps instalocks is super common haha). It's pretty common that people might bicker a bit about the team comp during setup and then not say a word for the rest of the round unless we lose.

If people aren't listening to you regarding team comp or whatever, imo just try your best to shotcall basic shit, like grouping up, priority/low targets, ult coordination, etc. Don't worry about people responding, they'll leave chat if they don't care (their loss).
I like to roll with humour and have never had an issue, stuff like sup booyyzzzzzzz les do this, usually you get a response of someone responding also in an over exaggerated way and you sorta bond with your team immediately. I play hanzo occasionally and ill start off saying, 'Can we not have a hanzo on our team?', 90% they no longer care you are hanzo ahaha
I say "o hai mark".  Usually works.
What I do is make sure everyone is in voice by looking at the voice chat panel. Then say hello and also I pick last making sure people can pick what they want and then I can fill. Letting people instalock and then picking around those picks is a good way to go imo
I just say "Hey Everyone, how's it going today/night?". The problem with people not responding seems to be people not joining comms in general.
"Hellllooo, everybody, how are you doing on this *fine* Monday evening?" (change day and time as needed)  
I say this in my deepest, most confident voice, and it tends to work out fine.
Some teams dont talk. Keep talking in mic unless they are not in chat at all.

Counting down a speedboost near a choke so everyone goes in is a way to get your synergy built up. Its hard to not support eachother when everyone is engaged. Other then that dont clutter or demand comms. Dont ask for switches more then once. Stay positive and be glad they hear you. 

And if all else fails play it out. Dont get toxic. Life gave you your hand and its your job to play it.

If you want full comms at all times your able to make a 6 stack. Hope this helps.
Hey, what's up? Can we get another tank?
I'm in GM, and team communication and coordination is really overrated in solo queue. It's definitely not the key to climbing out of silver. Honestly, even being in voice chat is too distracting to yourself and others - at least in silver - to be worth it. You'd be better off turning voice chat volume to 1/100, and making call-outs but nothing else. (That way, they can hear you but you can't hear them.) Or simply not being in voice chat. 

You sound like you may be blaming your teammates' lack of teamplay for your lack of success climbing out of silver, but I can assure you that the only real way to climb is to focus solely on your own work and practice key skills. Just be the best you can be, ignore everyone else, and you can climb all the way to GM (assuming you're constantly working on improvement).
Hi t them with the Lucio quote. "Look at this team, were going to do great!"

Works like a charm.
'Hi guys, how's everyone going today?'

Almost always gets a response, and gives you a good idea of the general mood, if its positive or if you've got someone who's in the middle of a tilt (you can sometimes head this off with good humour and friendly encouragement).

And if nobody responds, well, at least you know 
My default opener is "Sup team?" If you want people to make callouts, I find going Zen and calling your discords can make a big difference. Things don't need to be conversational - short, impactful communication is often more significant than trying to impose team chemistry on solo queue. And as those discord targets start dropping and you make progress people usually reciprocate a bit.
True
It's a basic ice breaker/mic check. If any1 responds with "shut up faggot" it's an immediate mute. Idc if they were trying to be funny or not, it's not worth it. Maybe you can unmute later if you feel you can. 

Don't get in their face when they go off meta, just a simple hello + double crouch does the trick, maybe crouch follow them a little bit like you're sneaking behind them. Otherwise it honestly looks like you're trying to get their attention to switch. Also when ppl do this and I'm not in a festive mood I personally find it more tilting and annoying. 

Also about getting your team hyped, don't go overboard. If someone dosent want to switch after asking something like "hey hanzo, do you know tracer? Because we have a fairly divy comp and our Winston may need help on the ground. 

How to get someone to switch without triggering them^(TM)
 Address them, ask if they know how to play hero X, and give them a reason for your asking them to switch.

If they don't switch and you know they heard you (they in vc and not afk) then don't ask again until midgame and know 100% what you want them to play. You may look at their other played heroes to determine what you want them to play


If you ask them to switch bc it's triggering you, that's not cool and you need to get over it, focus on your own gameplay first. 

I like that. I also think it sounds kinda awkward with a basic "what's up"  
Zoinks, you just described my style exactly.  And it sure works.
Personally, I prefer "Hey, whats up..."... and then responses. It lets me know who has a mic / who will be using one.

Anything over the top about shot calling or firing up the team, and I'm just hoping I don't have to listen to *too* much voice the whole game.

Best case scenario and it's funny stuff / team work between rounds, and concise call outs / ult synergy during fights. Then gg.
Ah geez...
Observation: "hello, how's it going?" tends to signal more cooperative intent than "anyone got a mic?"
I actually won a Game of Torb Sym Hanzo and Widow in high Gold in Season 5. Was the funniest match Iever had. The enemy didnt know what was happening.
send nudes
People will often respond better with a small amount of friendly banter before you jump in with 'can we get a tank'. 
Too true about the team comps, every argues we have 4 dps, 1 healer, and 1 tank, but if it's working no one bats an eye lol
"Why are you torb on attack?"

"Come on, you know that's confidential. Anyway how's your sex life?"
First off, don't listen to this person ^^^ You totally will AND can climb while working with your teammates through communication. This person seems like they played FPS games that were not based off actual teamwork and objective captures but rather a K/D ratio scoring system. 

I started playing this game in season 2 and was placed in very low gold. Here we are in season 6 and I'm at high masters. You can do it. Don't be afraid to use voice comms but also don't be afraid to mute or ignore people that are being overly salty or aggressive over voice comms. 
>You'd be better off turning voice chat volume to 1/100, and making call-outs but nothing else. (That way, they can hear you but you can't hear them.)

Yeah, no. Don't do this. That's obnoxious as fuck.
Interesting perspective, I appreciate the info. I hate to blame other people for my losses but it's frustrating when my team just chooses terrible heroes and refuse to change or even discuss it. That usually happens at the beginning of the match so that's when I'll try to start a convo and have no success 
idk m'dudes it actually seems like decent enough advice.
Totally! Minor point: I try to avoid saying "guys", because some of the people on comms aren't guys. It's a tiny thing, but it's one less reason for someone to feel unwelcome and opt out of communicating. "Hello everybody" and "Hey y'all" have roughly the same meaning while remaining gender neutral.
Good elaboration. Name does not check out. 
It does, I have to agree with it. Usually I say nothing at all, and only speak up when something needs calling out. Sometimes that means my voice is unheard until late game, but I prefer quality over quantity when it comes to comms.
Hm, is that so? From what I observed, "anyone got a mic" gets more responses than "how's it going." I think "anyone got mic" is cooperative enough. Sends the message that you are looking to communicate. Could differ based on tier though (I'm in lower tiers)
Haha ok good to know it's possible :D
Don't follow his advice, to be quite blunt he's full of shit.
I actually consider 'guys' to be a gender neutral term nowadays - like, it's evolved in its use to the point where I regularly hear women say it to groups of other women. I also play primarily with my girlfriend and my daughter, neither of them have batted an eyelid. I like to keep my comms consistently friendly and open, but I've noticed that other girls are more likely to speak up in voice chat if either the kid or the GF does it first. There's usually one every other match, and we often end up grouping at the end of the match for more games.
Did you just assume my gender????
If you say "hi", it applies to everyone whether they can respond or not. When you ask if anyone has a mic, it signals that only the people who can respond count.

Also, what happens when no one replies? In my experience, people who ask "anyone have a mic?" are more likely to be frustrated when no one responds.
I often play with my partner and have noticed this too. Side note: I own a "Ladies Is Gender Neutral" t-shirt. :)
Alright... so how about say both "how's it going" and "anyone got mic" :D

Seems like the people you and I play with have contrasting dispositions, so we have experienced different things in terms of how team voice chat goes.
It's not about the disposition of your teammates (which you don't get to choose), it's about your awareness of and sensitivity to a range of possible dispositions. The small things matter to some people, and being aware of that gives you a potential edge. How much you care about that is up to you.
Haha alright then.

Miscellaneous Tips for New Mercy— What To Do and What Not To Do
I’ve been playing Mercy since season 2 and her changes are pretty much everything I’ve ever dreamed of. With new Mercy, you can be so much more active and flexible, influencing the outcome of a game with a ton of impactful, rapid micro-decisions that—while maybe not feeling as “epic” as getting off a monster rez—certainly have the potential to be as powerful. After logging a few hours on her on PTR and watching others play her I’ve come up with a few tips on what to do and what not to do when playing Mercy 2.0. In no particular order:

**Rez is a normal ability now, but that doesn’t mean you should use it on cooldown.** So many times I’ve seen Mercys just rez whoever dies first with no second thoughts, because it’s not an ult anymore and they feel it’s OK to spam it.

Old tempo-rez rules still apply: Don’t rez into a 6v6 unless there’s a good reason (like undoing a lucky opening pick when defending), or ever into a numbers disadvantage. Don’t bother rezzing if a teammate dies in a bad position where they’ll just get ganked again (also, with no invuln you’re likely to die as well if you fly to their soul). Consider who you’re rezzing—if your off-DPS dies but your main tank is close to death and you probably can’t save him, consider either saving rez for the tank or holding it altogether for the next fight to prevent staggering/feeding. 

Just because it’s not an ult anymore and is single-target doesn’t mean rez can’t be stupidly powerful or stupidly destructive for your team.

**Use Valkyrie to pocket your blading Genji!** Genji’s ult is potentially devastating but he’s still vulnerable during it and needs support from the team. We’ve all seen Zens or Lucios popping their ult to make sure Genji stays alive long enough to do work, and I think this is a good use of Valkyrie as well. I’d even argue that Valkyrie might be better for it, as it seems to charge faster than Transcendence/Sound Barrier and Mercy’s enhanced mobility means she can easily keep up with Genji and stay alive as he’s flipping around all over the place. Plus, ValkMercy can damage boost—something that Zen/Lucio ult doesn’t provide. I’d say it’s worth doing this just about every time unless you’re running both Ana and Mercy, in which case it’s probably best to just give Genji a Nano.

You can of course pocket other ults as well, but I think the effects are best seen when paired with a Dragonblade.

**Don’t float up the skybox during Valk just because you can.** Free-flying is amazing, but remember that you’re extremely vulnerable to hitscan while in the open air. I see tons of Mercys pop Valk and then go as high as they can to avoid the cross-fire on the ground, but that leaves you wiiiide open to a competent Widow/Soldier/McCree. Before I learned this I was caught out by *so* many surprise Deadeyes. Use Mercy’s enhanced mobility and speed (especially on Guardian Angel!) to LOS enemies, hug cover, and even stay near the ground but take advantage of the increased beam range to stay way behind your team while still supporting them with chain healing/boosting. Mercy is very survivable during her ult but her regen won’t save her from a fully charged sniper headshot.

**Yes, the gun got nerfed, but you can still frag during Valk.** The brief but stupidly fun days of quad-kill angel-of-death Mercy are over, but that doesn’t mean you absolutely shouldn’t use the gun during her ult anymore. You shouldn’t have it out the *entire* duration of Valkyrie, but if you judge that no one on your team is dying any time soon and there’s a pesky enemy on high ground and/or behind a shield that your teammates can’t reach, *and if it’s safe for you*, feel free to use your mobility to get to them and plink them into submission. Mercy’s pistol was always a legitimate CQC threat even before her rework; now with unlimited ammo and her increased mobility, it is even more so.
 
Again, to emphasize: Fragging is not and shouldn’t be the focus of her ult, but it is an aspect in which you can make a flexible choice depending on what your team needs most at the moment. Sometimes your Orisa needs the sniper dead more than she needs to be topped off from 300HP.

**If you rez near the end of Valk, but Valk hasn’t ended yet, the next rez cooldown will remain at 10 seconds even after the ult expires.** For example, if you do a rez with 5 seconds left in Valkyrie, your rez will be available again 5 seconds after the ult ends. So if the conditions discussed in point 1 are right for a rez, don’t be afraid to throw one out just because you’re worried you won’t have it back when you need it next.

**Rez now requires LOS. Shields block LOS. Be aware of Winstons, Reinhardts, Orisas, and possibly Meis.** This works the same as Lucio’s auras and Sound Barrier—if the teammate’s soul is inside of a monkey bubble, you can’t rez it from outside the bubble. If the teammate died behind an enemy Rein shield, you’ll have to fly into Rein’s hammer range to get past the shield and rez. I’m unsure whether Mei’s Ice Wall denies LOS in the same way because for some reason zero people have wanted to play Mei in my PTR games, but if it does, expect, “Mei building a wall specifically to prevent Mercy from getting to the teammate she wanted to rez,” to become a thing. Don’t fly in for a rez if it means putting yourself in danger for an extended period of time trying to get past barriers or walk around objects. Mercy’s #1 priority is still preserving her own life.

I’m sure there’s stuff I’m forgetting or haven’t discovered yet, but that’s what I have for now! I think new Mercy will be a beast in the right hands and I can’t wait until she comes out on live. Please feel free to add on tips & tricks and advice of your own, I would love to read them. 

**Edit:** /u/Bumblebeeji just let me know that rez requiring LOS is apparently a bug, not an intended change! Thanks!Good write-up. Usually stick to off-heals but I kind of dread playing new Mercy and people calling for rez now because it's no longer an ult they can't look at your ult status and everyone may think they're the most important person on the team. 

Edit: that said I like the new rez being an ability it certainly requires much higher game sense to use well. I just will have to listen to a lot of salty team mates when I know it's not correct to rez them and they're calling for it. 
Thanks for this write up!  I've seen some videos suggesting rez is a little inconsistent based on the camera angle - would you agree?

I'm a console scrub, thanks for giving us a heads up!
Thanks. I'm itching to get to using the new Mercy on console and your guide is proactively helpful! Great write-up!
I didn't know rez is now LoS, good looking out. 
EeveeA said on twitter that the LOS thing is a confirmed bug. So hopefully that'll be changed. 
Wait a second. On maps with close spawns like 2cp, can't mercy just res->run to spawn->quick switch heroes->go out->res->repeat?

Sure 0 ult charge but that's a res every 10-20 sec anyways isn't it?
I am also not sure about Mei's wall breaking the LOS. While Winston's bubble can break Lucio's sound barrier, Mei's wall cannot break sound barrier as well as enemy Mei's blizzard.
Thank god someone understands her and wrote it down. Especially how the current/soon old temporezz mercy worked. I never really played her much until a monrh ago or so. And i will definitly play her more with the updated version. Im hyped for it and i hope in some ways it will throw away the bad ones or even better. The bad ones finally learn how to play her.

I also always recommend watching some EeveeA gameplay. Try catching this dude as an enemy!
And finally i dont have to hear all the excuses of mercy's ehy they died (teams fault) 
Good read. I'm wondering though that is it really worth it to Valk during a Dragonblade? I haven't found it to be difficult to keep up with a genji with the old mercy mainly because the guardian angel cooldown is so short. Correct me if I'm wrong but Valk doesn't increase the single target healing so if genji's going at it alone, which he often is, Valk isn't really boosting him any better than having not ulted. I mean yeah with Valk you can be in a much safer position to heal genji, but that by itself seems like a bad reason to use your hard earned ultimate. 
I dont like that you cant rez through a shield. They should make it like meis ult which goes through shields but not walls. 
>everyone may think they're the most important person on the team.


lol this Mercy change results in no changes to that attitude.


What I actually think will happen is in the beginning, every rez will be considered bad.  It'll balance out in time.

Oh yeah everyone thinks they're the most important. Had a mercy solo rez a Junkrat, while a soldier and Lucio with ult were in a different location waiting to be rezzed. Junkrat commends the mercy for her good play.
Yeah, and they're all wrong. Because IM the most important person on the team. /s
I was thinking about this. Chat is now going to be constantly spammed with MERCY REZ ME even more than before.
I think eventually people that don't keep track of cooldowns/ults will stop requesting rez for the most part
Ah I dont fear the rez hate. Hours of Symmetra in comp have preparwd me for this.
No problem! The angle is a bit weird. Because rez isn't AOE anymore, they make you target a specific reticle so you can make sure you rez the person you want if you're in range of 2+ targets; the thing is, this reticle is *above* the little soul globe that people are used to looking at *and* in a different place than the GA reticle. If you're not pretty spot-on while looking at the target they give you, you can press E all day long and nothing will happen. This was hard to get used to!
Apparently rez requiring LOS is a bug! Which makes sense considering that it's kind of a huge change but wasn't mentioned by Blizz. 
Wow, no kidding? That's significant. Thanks for the heads-up!
I don't think this would be worth it at all. For one thing, throwing away ult charge for Valkyrie is a big waste considering how good it is. Second, continually running back to spawn, switching, and running back would take a relatively lot of time just to gain a single rez. I think you're better off keeping your team alive as best you can and then building up and using Valk if you want chain rezzes.
I don't feel that would be an efficient use of her. Her ult is powerful and can be used to reset ult and once it's over, can still be used to keep in a kind of tempo rez sorta thing. If you died and switched by the time you get back it should already be back up or close, but I haven't played Mercy 2.0 or seen much gameplay, so I don't have the best outlook on it, just my two cents 
Even though everyone's shutting you down (and maybe they're right, maybe not, who cares), I just wanted to say, good thinking on that edge case.
I don't know about switching off and then back on. But I definitely think new mercy will be near Mei level for stall.
Rez's range is so short that it becomes inefficient to fly to an enemy then run back to spawn. 
Thank you! You're not wrong at all, and it does depend on more specific conditions than I went into in the post. My thinking is that 1. Valkyrie makes Mercy herself far more maneuverable/survivable, so she's more likely to stay alive long enough to dive with Genji for DB's full duration, 2. usually other teammates (Winston, Tracer, etc.) will *also* be going in with Genji to provide supplementary damage, in which case the whole "unit" benefits from chain heals/boosts, and 3. Valk lasts a staggering 14 seconds longer than DB, meaning that if Genji is only able to get 1-2 kills with his sword, Valk can be what allows the team to press the small numbers advantage and mop up the survivors. 

It is ultimately a judgement call. I've had a lot of success with it on PTR and I think it's a fine use of the ult considering how quickly it charges (just a *smidge* slower than old rez, which could charge insanely quickly).
Don't worry, apparently this is actually a bug!
It's probably better this way so that the team won't just say "we have rez" and play like animals praying to god that the mercy somehow gets the dream rez in
Who is "me"? People will shout just hero names the whole time
You are a gem, thanks for the response!  Do you think this is something that Blizz should change so it's aligned with the GA reticle?
Exactly, you waste both ult charge and any opportunity to actually heal/boost your team..
CS student :)
:)!

I see no reason at all, gameplay-wise, that it shouldn't be aligned with the GA targeting. The only thing I can think of is that it would be difficult programming-wise to assign two actions to one reticle for whatever reason. If they could manage it I would definitely prefer it that way!

DAE seriously struggle on KOTH maps?
I've always enjoyed payload maps more than KOTH style maps, but I never noticed until this season that I have a problem. It doesn't matter if its QP, Competetive, or Mystery Heroes either. Doing my placements for season 6, I lost every KOTH match, and the thing is, I'm really not sure why. Whether I'm healer, tank, or DPS, I cant quite figure out what I'm doing wrong on these maps. I was curious if any one else had this problem in the past, and what they did to solve it. I tried looking for guides on this issue and couldn't find any so any tips/ links would be awesome.What rank are you? KotH has more dueling at certain ranks and is generally more chaotic. You might be struggling when there's less clear battle lines or at 1v1s.
Low-mid plat. You have a point with the chaoticness of it. After thinking about it, I think it's not prioritizing who to pick off first. Playing support, it's sometimes hard to know where I should be during the craziness of it all and not knowing who to heal/dmg boost first.

Need tips after a 850 sr drop.
I'm level 700 and play mostly competitive since season 1. From rank 40 (silver) in season 1 to finally  master (3640) last month, step by step (solo q only) 

Now I am 2750. I lost 850 sr in a month. I was not boosted. I have thrown nothing. I still play the same characters (Sombra mercy dva Winston Lucio) and I have no internet problem. I'm speechles. My win rate is about 30%. I don't think I'm playing in a different way. 

I don't know. I come from starcraft 2 where I was master in many seasons and never dropped off. My level looked solid and well earned. In some way I feel like in overwatch ranking means less and you can gain/loose it easier? I had a lot of loss / wins strings but this one...

Any tips/advice ?I'm only in diamond, and similar level, so my advice won't be amazing or anything you haven't heard before but try to record your gameplay and figure it what is wrong. To be honest we both know overwatch can have a big luck factor, and you can drop by no fault of your own, happened to me in season 3. Despite that, I always think that something will be slightly wrong when you start dropping, maybe struggling to keep up with the current meta (I had issues adapting when dive became meta, but learned Winston and went back up). Don't look at if you won or lost the game, look at how you individually impacted the game, and where you made good and bad plays. If you have gameplay from before the drop try to compare them, see if you're making new mistakes or have stopped using your ult the same way etc.
Lol I dropped from 3500 to 2500 within a few weeks, turns out my mouse was broken and I didn't realize it. I got back to 3700 in no time after I got my new mouse and did 80% of my games as winst/doom. Check my overbuff or something Hanzo#16809

Here's a few things to make sure you're doing


1. Check your gear

2. Submit VOD 

3. stop worrying about your teammates, you do your job and they do theirs. However in plat if something isn't happening it is 100% better to go that role than stay on what you are already on if you think you can fix the issue. 

4. Focus on yourself, don't make risky plays

5. Positioning

6. Remember you're not GM, you're not a god, but that's ok bc you're here for fun and to win

7. Give callouts - a team with a shitty plan is better than a team with none

8. Play more defensively

9. Take a break

10. Make sure you're warming up properly

Edit: I should elaborate that I have been a dps main my whole OW career but filled for tank so damn often that they were my most played heroes last season 
>Sombra mercy dva Winston Lucio

how about your winrates this season and past seasons? maybe they fixed sr gains on sombra and mercy.

also post vods if you wanna improve
> My win rate is about 30%

How do you get into Masters with a win-rate like that? Must be a damn good player to have such a loss-to-win SR difference.
I don't know. I play mercy the most. coming from last season with a good winning rate of 65%. This season I have around 20% winrate on her. 

 Btw coming from starcraft too. I find it much easier to train and get good in starcraft then in OW. Get your macro up. know when to micro. Lern to scout and to read what you see. yea.. In SC I always knew what I need to improve to get better. In OW sometimes I feel like yea I need to improve, but I have no clue where I need to improve. 
Obviously I can't say anything about your play without seeing games so it's hard to give any real tips on what to do better there. 

But just off of the characters you have listed as your main 5, they are all quite team reliant picks. Sombra requires the team to follow up, Mercy and Lucio are obviously hyper team reliant... DVA and Winston have a somewhat decent presence but you aren't going to be hard carrying many games with them, with how they both function in a dive comp they again require communication and capable team to do well.

I cannot say if you truly belong in Masters as I don't know how you play. But if you do truly believe you belong there then you should be able to work on a couple of decent DPS also. An 850 SR drop is a lot and whilst you might not main DPS role, I'd really consider trying out those couple of picks and working on that. Even if you aren't mechanically the best DPS in the world, with 850SR difference if you really belong at that peak the awareness and positional choices you make alone should matter.

I'm a 3800-4000 tank support main for the last 3 seasons and barely play DPS at my current MMR. But if I were to go below 3.5k there is no way I'd be tanking or healing the majority of my games :P Is a lot easier to carry those ranks as a DPS than it is a supporting role.
I had 50-55% winrate last season and now I have 30% winrate this season idk why either
No use asking for advice. Blizzard controls match making. If you win a few games it puts you in a trash team. After that you can't win. If you do manage to carry a few games it will put you in an even worse team.
This isn't a team game. The faster you get that in your head the faster you will start winning. Play solo don't rely on anyone.
Lock in something you are good at except a healer and then kill people and don't die. This game was made for just that purpose.
It was made to see how you deal with trolls and cheats.
Probably an experiment being conducted by SETI or NASA
I'm in the same boat. At the end of season 5 I dropped from 2764 to 1900. I had a lot of DCs but I thought that wouldn't matter as I would then be playing below my skill level and I could easily climb back up... NOPE. I finished the season in low gold. FeelsBadMan
[deleted]
30% winrate is a bit to low. The game is intended to balance in a 50/50%. A higher winrate means you will slowly climb up; a stable winrate around 50 will keep you at a certain sr and a lower winrate will drop you to a lower level. It is far from optimal but that is the thought behind it. I was dangling at a 62-64% winrate last season and slowly but steadily climbed until fell to 59%.(almost only one hero).
I climbed from high bronze to low platinum. In the last 300 Gold SR I noticed a noticable slowing down in gains.
TL;DR winrate of 30% is to small.

Cool advice, I guess I will do that more. This leads me to think my biggest need in the game right now is not having more heroes or a better report system but a replay system.
This season I'm 27% with Sombra (11 games) vs 47% last season (100 games, was 55%+ most of the season)
Mercy I'm currently 33% (10 games) vs 58% (60 games) last season. 
It can't be this I think. Maybe the sample is still too low but I began to drop of last season so it s hard to see.
I was in master last season with a 50-55% win rate.
Then I lost many games. Im currently platinum with a 30 % win rate over 50-60 games already. 
I find a lot of myself in this. In SC 2 when I was platinum, diamond or Master I knew why. What where my weaknesses, the points I needed to improve. I used to watch a ton of replays and learned a lot from them. Overwatch could really be better with a replay system. Im not 100% sure this will help as much though. 
I went from 2600 last season to 1850 this season. With a solid 70% win rate. 
I love how you talk about the dps dick measuring contest then in the next paragraph say how you started insta locking dps. 

I can relate and I think so can a lot of other people. Nobody wants to be the insta lock dps douche, but if that's what you're ACTUALLY better on it's the best pick you can make. I'm trash at tanks and don't like playing healer anymore. 

It's annoying that when 4 people pick dps it's assumed all 4 suck when really, a couple of them are probably decent dps mains.
It would be great to have that, and with the recent highlight system it feels like blizz is heading in that direction
well then you are probably doing basic mistakes. also 47% winrate means that you can only really climb because of the higher SR gains. this got fixed this season. theres not really a way to climb with negative winrates anymore.

again, i think you should post vods.
FeelsBadMan :(
also lady luck doesnt strike me atm that hard.

But i try my best and the system recognize it i just lose 18sr and win around 28+

so staying in the right region even with bad winrate

so just try your best (staying on fire as you will get up eventually)
Dafuq? How is that possible?
I'm so confused. That should be impossible. When you lost did you lose like 60 points every game? Even then with 25 points for a win it'd take so many games to drop down that many points. I want to believe you but.... how? You'd have to stand in spawn to get sr rates that bad
Winrates are tricky, specially when you switch heroes midgame. 

Saw this last season. Switched to lucio (first time the season I play lucio) in like the last 1/3 of the game and we won. I got a winrate of 42% for lucio. Which is strange.. because we won thanks to the lucio switch.


I was between 50% and 55% with Sombra most of the season 5. The last month,  it dropped to 47%, and my sr to ~3300 (from (3640). But I consider the flaws of the sr system in season 5. I will see if I can record/edit something good enough.
Playing with a lower sr pre-made? :p
I placed super low, but i dint know why, ive been climbing and maintining my 70% win rate. Ive only plated like 20 games this season. 
yes so? if you play that hero a lot it will regulate. if you have a sub 50% winrate you wont climb much if any.
I have a buddy i play with as a 2 stack, and thats the only time we play competitive, last season we were withing about 150sr all the time. This season after doing our placements together, win 7 lose 3 he got 2785 and i got 1895.  Since then weve played another 11 games and won 7.
Except for the glitchy way winrates are affected by DCs. You can win half your games and be climbing while your winrate is abysmal. Just sayin
most people dont dc that much to have an impact on their winrates

Have you been able to escape any Tier playing Solo?
Okay So i purchased overwatch early this year, maybe Jan. but didn't dedicate time to it as I thought the progression system was a bit slow. All I wanted to try out was the competitive mode but boy never have I been so depressed about a multiplayer. Fast forward to last week, I played everyday and finally got into the competitive mode and managed 2074 (gold) points from placement matches. I have won only a few since then and thereby dropped to 1755. I am probably doing something wrong, I love using Soldier 76 but recently I have been trying out the tank and healer heroes. I am okay with Orisa but what i noticed is that when i switch, most of my teammates end up doing little to no DPS. If i choose to go healer, the same thing happen. Those of you who play solo, how have you been able to escape this hell? Sometimes I go into a game and we cant even break down opponents defense to steal a capture. In this case even playing healer does not do much as most payers don't usually stick with the team. I do like this game but the rage is becoming a burden. PS4 BTW.Most of the times when you are a tank or support, if your DPS teammates don’t do enough damage it is NOT their fault but yours. You have to enable them to make damage. Create space or shield them or heal them.
i got the game in season 2, got placed low gold, played a bit, and got every season higher, now season 5 and 6 diamond, so when i play more i guess i could reach high diamond at least. but yeah, solo Q and ranking up is possible
I climbed from 1900 to 2300 solo. Then summer happened and I fell back to 1650. Pretty much stuck back in silver now, whether I play characters I know I can do well with, or fill for the team. Damn kids  
Climbed from Silver to Masters from season 3 to season 5 all solo. Really just focused on my own performance and how I can contribute to my team without playing selfishly. I watched a toooon of guides for my top 3 mains(D.Va, Mercy, and Soldier), and really tried to apply everything I learned.

Edit: am also on PS4
when i started i was plat, s1 end was diamond(1-100 ranks back then), s2 i peaked 3.7, s3-s5 gm

first of all i would stop playing hereos that are considered bad

seconldy i would post a vod if you can from ps4
Well im only doing soloQ, in S1 got rating 63, havent played S2 and S3 and in S4 placed at 2900ish,kept playing and finished S4 at 3.5ish, and then got around 3.7 at the start of season five. At this point i have 350hrs played and will consider myself around Low/Mid Diamond after 2 month break, given 3 months time i could reach GM playing solo with good effort and time investment, so yeah i do believe its absolutely possible to solo climb and cant understand why anyone would think otherwise. 
started bronze, 1480 on S3, then went to silver, then went to gold,  then to plat in S4, then went to diamond on S5, this season i hope to get to masters.

Not hard to get to diamond in my opinion, it just takes that you know well your class and play acordingly, it doesnt need suberb aim, suberb movimentation or anything suberb, just do your job and minimize mistakes.
Went from 750sr to 2200sr solo only. Definitely possible my dude.
Playing 95% of my time soloq and hit gm. Mostly playing supp or tank. 
Stay cool, play confident and don't get mad if you lose. 
I decided to play supp or tank cause of the kids instalocking dps. 
And don't forget: it's a fkin game - enjoy ;)
I think I may be a rare case, but I was able to climb from silver to masters in season four doing almost entirely solo queueing. I ended season 3 at ~2900, and got shit placements for the next season. Ended up getting placed high silver ~1950. Was able to solo queue my way up to where I belong (at least think I belong) at mid to high play, but gained enough experience along the way to make it up to ~3600 by the end of the season. So far, I've yet to have any level of climbing similar to that, but I know from this that with enough time and dedication climbing form any tier by yourself is absolutely possible.
I started in bronze about 10 months ago. I was stuck there for quite some time. What got me out of bronze was stick to widow on offense and bastion on defense and carry the games.
I rushed through silver in a few games and got gold, by keeping up the defense bastion strat, but playing soldier and orisa on offense,  because more and more people started to use cover and not stand directly infront of the spawn to get shot by widow. (had about 50-60 sr gain per win during my time in silver)
I'm gold for a while now and i'm trying to get plat, career high is about 2350 and most of the time i play at 2100-2200.
Until now hard carry was my way to climb, but i'm not good enough to do that in gold so i started learning more heroes and flex in comp (most dps/all healers, but mercy/zarya). Hasn't worked out so far, but i'll keep improving.
In season 4 I was placed gold and climbed to plat. Season 5 I was Placed in gold as well and climbed to diamond. S6 was placed high plat and now I'm back in diamond. I mostly play support, but now starting to pick up tanks.
yep. In plat many tanks berating teammates because they have more kills than them.
I lost counts of: I am a tank (dva) and have more damage and kills that any other of the dpsers! you suck! (of course we lost), the dva instead of protecting was dpsing, wasnt enabling anyone to kill and was just seeking to frag while leeching healing and putting mercy in bad positions everytime.... then the healers died, then the dpsers died because of it, and in sequence the tanks.



its not, anyone who says this is just delusional or doesent want to improve at the game.
[deleted]
Do you suggest i stick with Soldier for the most part especially if I eventually rank back up?
Maybe I worded the post wrongly but generally am just seeking opinions or ideas on how best to play my games. I tried watching some pros play and see how they coordinate against their enemies. Honestly it's tricky to implement especially when no one is talking in the lobby and you need them to gather at a specific point. So at this point, it's best to make the most of my own plays and rely on luck that the group pulls through?
Okay this might be a noon question but i suck at tracking stats. What is this SR gain? The max  i ever get is 30 or so i believe.  Does using a certain hero consistently influence this? I have 61% win on bastion. 46 on orisa and soldier respectively.  
Especially they tend to neglect, that eliminations are not equal to kills. I know what I am talking about: been there, done that
i totally dont get what you mean, its like you have two opinions in one sentence? 

its delusional to think you can rank up alone? 

and also doesnt want to improve, so is not ranking up on purpose?
I saw a mercy main yesterday (on a stream) was 1200sr three seasons ago and now 4.2k. If blizzard focuses too much on personal stats, things like that will keep happening.

 ELO hell is a real thing with people that refuse to play the game based on its most basic rules and strategies. Much easier to deal with when everyone is capable and playing seriously, but with kids playing deathmatch every game  there's only so much to be done. 
I know a lot of people say Soldier because his mechanics are relatively simple, and his self heal makes it so you can be a lot less reliant on your team's healers. In my opinion I think you should stick with Soldier, as he fits in almost every team comp, and doesn't really have any "hard" counters.
You need to kind of look at what your team is doing and look at what the other team is doing and figure out the things you can do to have the biggest impact on enabling your team to win the match. 
Just do what it takes to be most efficient at your role, for fact know that DPS do not need all that much communication, theres not much to talk about, know priority targets, good angles to shoot from and routes to take and thats it. 
my post was about this part

>solo Q and ranking up is possible

if you think its impossible to rank up in solo qyou are delusional or dont wanna improve at the game
what is wrong with someone climbing 3k over 3 seasons?
great, thanks.
Thanks
i am playing solo, and i did rank up alone, gold, plat and now diamond. i played ana, dva, now mostly sombra, so what is your point, i improved enough to rank up, while being solo, i dont know what to tell you. you sure youre not the one who doesnt wants to improve if you think its impossible to get better at a team game playing alone?
I think your reading comprehension needs to rank up because you basically repeated what he said. 
The only reason they climbed was because they used a character that specifically doesn't participate in the game to abuse the SR system. 

They had a win rate below 40%, meaning they were relying on winning a game being worth more than losing a game because they play specifically for 5-man rezzes instead of just... winning the game.

One-tricking is not something I have a problem with, but winning around 1 out of 3 games, only playing a character that specifically doesn't play when they use their best ability, does not a Grandmaster make.
Well I just need to keep trying to see what works best for me, at the moment i still tinker alot with my aim settings and all. I was advised to keep aim assist stuff at 100 but it feels funny honestly. I use 20s on the sensitivity. 100 assist, 45 assist window, 0 ease in and smoothing. I wanna try sombra but am not sure i can handle her bullet spread or if my aim settings would fit her style. 
yes but its not only that. if you one tricked mercy or sombra for example, you gained more sr. so even if you had 50%+ winrate you would still rank up with less games than others(play to win in mind, not play to gain fat SR).

do you think thats fair? i dont think so.
gotta try it, good luck :)
Do I think what's fair? I'm not quite sure what you're asking, sorry
to climb faster with positive winrate than other players
If someone only plays one hero, or one style of hero (for example, hitscan DPS only), it would make sense that they are doing better with that class than someone that is bouncing around from many things (hitscan/main tank/healer/whatever). 

If they are performing better, they should be ranked higher. They are playing the game at that level, after all. It just limits the options for team compositions in a pub environment. That's one of the downsides to a gamemode where you jump in a game with five random people and mash their skills together to try to form a team. 

The solution to that is to find some people that play complimentary roles and queue with them. As long as you're in the "make a team with randos" game, that's what it is.

Ironically, I feel that the Hog changes encourage the return of flankhog
So since the new Hog changes have hit live I have to admit that he feels pretty damn effective to play now and may actually be viable. I still feel that his fantasy has been butchered but that's irrelevant to this discussion.





What I'm finding interesting is that through my own experimentation and personal observations I feel that flankhog is possibly back and arguably better than ever. Sure, you may not be able to get that cheeky 100-0 on the backline if they fail to notice you but you have never been safer as Hog attempting to do so. As long as you perform a soft flank not too far from your team you can pretty much attempt it risk free for free damage, because you can just turn around and walk away while TaB is active back to your team. I find myself hooking and doing heavy damage to the backline and causing havoc even more than before his change, because now I feel so safe and that there's very little risk in doing so. I think punishing newflankhog is much harder when he attempts this playstle than it was before, where the insane risk vs. reward made it a questionable strat IMHO.





Anyway, those are just my observations and I found it rather amusing. Any thoughts?The question is why was flankhog considered a problem? For me it was because that style of play involved basically zero teamwork - that was why a lot of people would recommend Roadhog as a solo carry hero.

The new Roadhog can still flank, and as you say he might even be better at it. But now he needs at least some help from his team to secure kills, which I think is much healthier for the game.
Why was Flankhog the fantasy instead of Sumohog?

Right now he excels at using his HP, heal, and mitigation to go straight at enemies, hooking one out of position for the team to kill, then repeating.

I don't use Hog to flank, I get as much attention as I can to draw enemy's fire away from my DPS so they can secure kills while I heal the damage that I take. The only problem is that I'm charging enemy ults by doing so. It makes team composition all the more important, since you MUST be able to counter enemy ults, but it is a very effective strategy to get picks and abuse the player advantage to take ground.

He's also insanely fun in team deathmatch right now because of how self sufficient he can be.
It still is possible to 100-0 200 hp targets, even if it isnt consistent. And if you can get a right click in before you hook they are basically for sure dead 
I guess that's true, but I feel like playing with the team has also become much easier. Before, one had to either hug walls or hug Rein or be toast. Now, hog feels like an actual tank and can take a much less scaredy-cat role. My hook rate jumped like 15% because of that - even if it's not a one-shot anymore it's still very bad news for enemies if you've got the help of your buddies.

The whole leaking ult charge thing... it's probably still bad but much less of a big deal if it distracts the enemy and helps charge support ults. Meanwhile, Flankhog can only charge his utter trash of an ult at a much lower rate.

It still remains to be seen if the new hog can fulfill a viable role on the team, but at least he only has one foot in the grave instead of two.
Only issue is, unless you can commit and get at least a frag, you'll just be charging up their ults
i like the flankhog now. i used him mostly for deathmatch just for fun and i noticed that he's like a stronger reaper in a way. they nailed the rework on him i just feel like you need to work more on your mechanics and aim to be more effective. proper communication with your team is also encouraged with him cause atleast you need a lucio to save you if you screw up from flanking. 
[Tell me about it](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cd_JESdAuls&feature=youtu.be)
Now that the "tanks can't 1-shot" circlejerk is over, people are realizing that his fat slowness was a huge disadvantage and hardly qualified him as a "flanker."
Why do people think Roadhog could ever flank? He is loud as fuck, makes noise even while crouching, makes noise even when just turning, has no mobility options, no escape tools, and is generally fucked once his hook goes on cooldown.

I'd really like someone to enlighten me because maybe you're seeing something that I'm not.

edit: and of course since this goes against the Reddit hive mind, I get downvoted without any actual counterarguments.
wouldnt call it flank hog, its just you can overextend and go for a hook and then run back with breather
To be honest, playing against this hog is very unfun. Hook is very inconsisten too, you can still one shot some and cannot some.

They should just revert all the changes back.
Oh, I don't consider it a problem whatsoever. It just seemed like flankhog was a playstyle that Blizzard did not want for Roadhog and wanted to make him much more team reliant. I just wanted to point this out because I feel like this actually helps him in this playstyle a lot more than they probably wanted.
I *don't* really think that's healthier for the game, to be honest.  With the wave of toxicity we experienced last season, I think it might be a good idea to have *some* "loner" heros as a kind of outlet.  If you think(whether it's true or not) that your team isn't pulling their weight, you could switch to one of these "solo-carry" heros and feel like you're making an impact, rather than helplessly yelling at your team.
I really dont understand this whole mantra about needing teammates to secure kills. Hook cancel an alt fire, followed by a shotgun blast is still a 100-0 kill combo on all squishys. The melee is old news because the second shot (if needed) is much quicker.
Yeah this is what gets me about some people on these subs talking about not being able to one shot hook people. You can still effectively take them out by yourself like before, you just want to land a shot or two before you hook them. I pretty much was already doing that as Hog so the nerf didn't really change much for me, and now that he can heal and move I can get in better position when the hook cool down is done.  
I got downvoted to hell for saying that roadhog can one shot.
Lucio, soldier, mccree are the 3 most consistent one shots from what I've noticed.
Same thing happened before if you missed hook you just charged ults 
Assuming you're working with your team and they are providing pressure, that poke damage that manages to hit the backline that otherwise would be considered trash damage could lead to a pick if you follow up with a hook combo from a surprising angle. I think it has genuine merit now as a low-risk, possibly high reward maneuver.
So the same negative hog has always had?
Less because of 50% g reduction
[deleted]
Watch a Harbleu YouTube video. He took flank hog to the pro level with decent (individual) success (CoL sucked). 
Beats me. Funnily enough I almost never did flankhog plays before he was changed for that very reason. People just don't seem to listen to ingame audio or have any situational awareness for the most part *("Where's the enemy Roadhog? durr I can't see him so he doesn't exist anymore I guess durrr")* and complained when this big, fat, loud, immobile hero would catch them off guard and kill them.

But now? I legitimately think that flankhog could be more than just a gimmick, and is a valid tool in a Roadhog's toolbelt because it has so little inherent risk now with the TaB changes.
It's because hog doesnt have to dive your supports or even get close like genji/tracer/winston. By the time you hear hog behind you he is already in hook range, and in the case of the old hog, he had likely got a pick already 
You're right.  It's no mystery why your detractors have to yammer on about streamers -- they didn't have time on hog.  Therefore, any time they got hooked was due to "flankhog."  It's understandable.
But at least now, it isnt that easy anymore. If you look back of what he was. A hook that catches everything from another dimension, tanky as hell and oneshots you.
Now you have to actually do something and be good at it. 
[deleted]
You mean that hardcarry Hanzu mains yelling at me for "not doing shit" will switch to Hog?! Great success!   /s
Dont get me wrong i am one ofthose people. If the enemy has an ana or mercy that are really on point you still probably wont get the kill, due to increased ttk. But shit if youre going to play him you might as wrll do everything in your power to try to get kills.
Better players tend to not hang around when they get shot once or twice by hog. 
Outside of some folks e periencr i suppose.
I think Zenyatta too but im not sure.
Not after the spread decrease.  You could alt fire and get kills no hook needed 
Oh sorry should I go half map behind them or something? Lol
Yeah, he should have run back to their spawn first
I know Harbleau himself called it Flankhog but I think he was wrong to do so. His playstyle wasn't flanking, it was poking. He did not play Roadhog as a Tracer or Genji and get behind enemy lines to dick on supports, he pushed just a bit out from his team to kill someone who wasn't grouping up on the enemy team, then retreated back to his team.

It frustrates me that this somehow caught on as "flank"hog  because it gave the "Roadhog is bad design" people free ammunition they had no right to. Of course Roadhog shouldn't he a flanker, *he never was.*
I guess that's why one of his Youtube videos is called "Roadhog for fun, Zarya for winning".
You and a lot of other Roadhog players exaggerate how easy it is to avoid lolrandom flanking hooks. If only bad players died to Roadhog he wouldn't have been popular at high ranks (he was) or the flankhog playstyle wouldn't have been used (it was, just not exclusively).
I disagree. I don't think the Take a Breather buff does enough to warrant flankHog. The problem is not that Hog dies when he uses his personal health pack. The problem is everything else I listed in my comment. Honestly if you're at the point where you're getting shot at while healing yourself, then your flank is already getting punished. You're just delaying the inevitable.
No
Well, yeah!  They'll switch to Hog instead of hurling abuse at you, AND they'll be playing an effective hero.  It's a win-win.
And a better hog will have good positioning and just hook them back and kill them 
Yea zen too.
Why is what Harbleu does not considered flanking in your eyes? In my opinion if you leave the safety of your team to achieve a better/unexpected angle of attack, that's flanking. Hog has no mobility so it'd be literally retarded to play him the same way. He isn't Genji or Tracer, he isn't gonna do well diving in deep like them and making a mess of the enemy positioning. What he does is go around the side, and from 30m away threatens to nab a support or DPS and one shot them. If you don't wanna call it flanking I don't care, I think we agree on how to play hog just not what's its called. 
> His playstyle wasn't flanking, it was poking. He did not play Roadhog as a Tracer or Genji and get behind enemy lines to dick on supports, he pushed just a bit out from his team to kill someone who wasn't grouping up on the enemy team

I feel like you really haven't watched Harbleu play much if you think this. He absolutely did play Hog like Tracer, he was notorious for going on really long flanks and getting picks from behind the enemy team, hiding while his team is dead rather than dying quickly so the can regroup, or killing a support then heading off on his own to intercept and kill the same support on respawn.

Did he play like this every game? No. But there were A LOT of ladder games where he did this, which is what is referred to when people talk about Harbleu flanking like it's 'Nam. Not the boring shield-war pokefests inbetween.
That was directly after he got nerfed 6 feet into the ground. Also it's just some clickbait title... I don't even think he makes those haha. 
*puts a poster of a flying hog in the blue sky in front of some dark trees on the wall*

I want to believe.


By that logic, every time a Soldier takes high ground, he's flanking. Every time I take an aggressive position as Widow or Hanzo, I'm flanking. So I guess flanking = anytime I'm not deathballed with my team?
In a vacuum I don't care what it's called. If we're going to be very precise, then it's misleading because flanking is defined as "that thing Tracer/Genji/Pharah do" and what Roadhog does is not that thing. So it seems like a good idea to call tge activities by different names. But whatever.

My real problem with it is that if it's called "pokehog" instead of "flankhog" it's a lot harder to tourn the bronze and silvers in the community against it. Flanking sounds like something a tank shouldn't be able to do. So if Roadhog can flank, obviously he's grossly OP. Only... He didn't flank, he poked aggressively. (And wasnt op at all) And Now we're stuck with a shitty character because a lot of idiots who have no idea how the game is played, or should be played, and don't understand the first thing about game design saw the words flankhog and used that as a weapon. Yes they used that weapon incorrectly, but there's more of them than there are of US, so their voices were heard and ours weren't. When the truth is they just wanted to castrate Roadhog because "muh ability to run around the map without watching my surroundings" and the word flanking was to them not a reflection of what they saw in game, but just ammunition to stack the deck against poor Hog.
Yes, that's how I define flanking. When you have a position that exposes the enemy flank, I consider it flanking. You don't need to literally be behind them to call it a flank. 
Um... yes? That's what flanking means, attacking from a flank so your enemy has to defend on multiple fronts unexpectedly. It's not like the term was invented in Overwatch.

If your soldier/widow is behind your team on high-ground, it's not flanking, but if he's at a wide angle from his team so the enemy can't defend both angles, it is a flank. Soldier and Widow don't have the mobily that Tracer/Genji have so you wouldn't call the former "flankers" but that doesn't mean they are incapable of the act of flanking.
I'd argue flank hog plays similar to Pharah. She flanks by getting a unique angle to attack from, unlike Genji and Tracer who need to be in your face to burst you down. Pharah is strongest when she pulls the attention from the enemy while being far enough away to avoid getting 1 shot. Even though she's mobile enough to constantly dive healers, she doesn't because that's not her playstyle. Flank hog operates in the same way. Swing wide of your team, make the enemy focus a hard to kill target that's a reasonable distance away all the while looking for that pick. 
There's more to the game than just deathballing everywhere.
> Swing wide

But you don't have to swing that wide. That's the thing. 

A Pharah might not dive the supports, but she's still coming from obscene angles of attack that are hard to predict. Roadhog comes from doorways. He doesn't magically dash/blink/rocket booster into some bizarre location. He's a loud, fat, sack of shit. Just keep your eyes on doorways that are coming from the exact same direction as the doorway the rest of his team walked through, and you'll see him coming from a mile away. That is not the same thing at all. 

Also we're kind of making it sound like this is Flankhog's bread and butter, and that's not really true. A lot of times, Flankhog straight up stays with his team and takes a straight 6v6. A lot of times he stays with his team, then ventures forward (pokes) a little bit to pick off someone who's overly eager, then comes right back to his team. If the team fight hasn't started yet and he's coming from one of the angles you'd expect his team to come from, that's not flanking. That's just being aggressive. 

Even if we're being generous and calling what I think is just aggressive poking "flanking" instead, that still only describes like 10% of his playstyle. But it was used as a buzzword to explain away everything that's wrong with Roadhog and turn him into some sort of eldritch abomination noobslayer that is somehow lurking in every single doorway at the same time. 
Define flanking for me then. I'm actively trying to understand your viewpoint, you're just telling me I'm wrong. 
No one here is arguing that a hog should never be with his team. Hog isn't a flanker, not even flank hog is a flanker. That's just the term for the fucking playstyle, which happens to involve more flanking than is usual for Roadhog. You don't need to make enemies turn 180 to call it a flank. Splitting their focus is the main benefit, because hog can't shield teammates, the best he's got is soaking fire and abilities by being in a threatening position. Even when you're not actively flanking, it's the threat that every time they lose sight of you, you could be on their backline before they see you again. He doesn't have the mobility that true flankers have, which opens up almost endless angles of attack, allowing you to flank every single push if you want. As hog you keep them guessing between your more limited flanking options and the default option to play tank hog. 
I guess my definition of flank is being attacked by someone who is not in your field of view (103 degrees). Preferably requiring a full 180 degrees turn just to see your flanker.

If my team pushes and we encounter a Soldier on high ground, or a sniper sniping at us like Anubus point A, then to me that's not really flanking. That's just holding an advantageous position that is not with the rest of the team, which happens all the time with lots of different heroes.

Another example to mention, say if we're defending Hanamura point A, and we have a Bastion immediately to the side of the choke, and he catches enemies trying to walk through the choke. To me that's not a flank either, because as you pass through "new" areas you should always be checking and clearing your corners (something that CSGO and many other FPS games drill into your head). But say a Genji was in the enemy spawn, and then as the enemies start to go through the choke, that Genji decides to attack. That would be a true flank, because he's attacking completely from the back and from an area that you would not normally check (people generally assume their spawn area is relatively safe).
We're really talking past each other here. I agree with everything you wrote in that post. 

My problem is Roadhog's bad PR. That's literally all it comes down to. Roadhog players gave him a cutesy name that was only borderline appropriate, and that name was then used to easily villify him in the eyes of players who don't fucking know better and don't care to learn better. That's my beef. People are idiots. 

And that's why it's very important to be very precise with language and avoid shorthand, because if you don't, idiots will use what you give them against you, in ways that are wrong and you didn't intend, and then before you know it Roadhog is castrated and that shit's on you because *even you admitted he's a flanker, didn't you? And obviously no tank should ever be a flanker under any circumstances.* 
I see what you mean now, and I don't think you're wrong, but think about this. Just as it's completely unexpected to find an enemy Genji in your spawn, the 1/10 pushes where a hog flanks can throw off the enemy team just as much. The difference is Genji has essentially unlimited mobility, so he can mix up the enemy team by attack from a different angle each time. Hog doesn't have this luxury so the best you can do I mix in a small flank every few pushes to keep the opponent guessing. He's not gonna be coming from directly behind, but just far enough out that he can get 1 hook off before anyone has targeted him yet. 
I'm glad you agree, I think we were really only arguing how we define flanking. Flanking hog isn't a flanker like Genji, he's just more of a flanker than tank hog. 

Journey to Masters
Welp, I finally did it. After three failed promo games, I finally hit Master's this season.

Here is some background:

I am (was) a Genji main with 200+ hours on him. However, the highest I could climb with him was only 3300. After that I would start having teams with no healers, no tanks, or team comps that would not work with Genji at all, and I would start falling. With the rise of Pharmacy and more recently Junkrat spam, I found it too difficult to be effective on Genji without my team's support. Here are my thoughts on the game after my climb:

1) Quick, efficient solo kills are essential to carrying as DPS
- Tracer, Hanzo, Widow were usually the characters I would see carrying the enemy team, because they can so safely and efficiently kill high priority targets.

I noticed that when I was playing Genji, I could get kills on Mercys or Zenyattas, but the enemy Tracer or Hanzo was killing my team's squishies so much faster and with so much more ease that I couldn't compete. I would also normally get targets down to 5 or 10% health but then have to rely on my team to finish them off (having to rely on your team = BAD idea).


2) Healing is super important and has a surprisingly high skill cap

I used to think that I would never be able to carry as a healer, but after picking up Ana and Zenyatta I noticed how huge of an impact I was having on the game. I used the mechanical skills I picked up from 200+ hours on Genji and applied them to a ~5 hour Ana to help boost me to Masters. Nading the enemy team so they can't heal while spamming high priority focused targets with heals  is surprisingly fun and effective. At the end of one of my recent games I was the only person on fire with a team of 2 low diamond DPS and a high Master's mercy.

3) I think tanking is Overrated (especially Dva)

Unless you are a Dva god, I think she is surprisingly overrated and I have yet to see a Dva really carry the game, she is annoying at best. I think the tank's that have the biggest potential to carry games are Winston and Zarya btw.

Now it's time to get my DPS only account up to Master's... gl out there guys.

Tbh if you're good enough at genji you can easily carry, but he is so insanely hard to play. Tracer is easier and more volatile, she can delet a zen and just recall
Diva can carry the hell out of games, I have very low hours on her but play her in scrims sometimes and with very basic game sense and target focus you can absolutely dominate. I mean you can eat half the ults in the game.
>3) I think tanking is Overrated (especially Dva)

you do realzie tanks have the easiest time to rank up right? you literally lead the game, you decide whats getting attacked as winston or lead where everyone walks through as rein etc
> I would also normally get targets down to 5 or 10% health but then have to rely on my team to finish them off (having to rely on your team = BAD idea).

sounds like you try to much to 1v1 people, not a good idea. just use voice and talk to your tracer, soldier, winston or zen. its literally as easy as "im on ana", "follow me winston", "can you discord mercy" etc
Yeah but I've found that it's easier said than done, a lot of the time people are focused on doing their own thing.

Only 3 SR gain after win
I only got 3 SR for a win. I went from 2506 to 2509 after playing on Oasis. We won pretty decisively and no ultimates were used by either team. Is this a normal gain now? I wasn't the only one, others complained about it on voice chat. It's not my first game since being placed but it is the first time I've gained so little for a win. Is this part of a new SR system? The enemy team did have a leaver after the first few mins of the first round...then clearly a thrower in the 2nd. Could that have had anything to do with it?There is a bug people can do purposely/accidently. Winning team barely gains sr, losing team barely loses sr. 
This has nothing to do with getting better.
Thanks I've been searching online but couldn't find anything about this anywhere. I just got to this SR level so I wasn't sure if this was supposed to happen now. We don't get patch notes on console
Just asking a question...you could have easily just said nothing if you aren't going to be helpful
Yup it has to do with leaving at a certain point in the game iirc. Already sent blizzard an email with a vod of a kid doing it but doesnt seem like they have fixed it.
> Overwatch University is a community dedicated to helping players improve



Sensitivity problem
im using 400 dpi, 9 ingame rn.  it feels too fast for flicking. also too slow for tracking. what should i do?My recommendation would be to increase your sensitivity slightly. I think sensitivity should revolve around tracking. Once you can track consistently and comfortably, then flicking only requires re-training your muscle memory.

I need tips for tracer, cant stop losing
Im main tracer since the game launched, i main tracer, im flex but i really want to main tracer.
Im skilled (or i think) but now i just cant kill anyone on rankeds, i cant go alone and i play on master/diamond sr's

What can i do to improve?Tracer is a really interesting character. The thing with Tracer is, you need to get in close, but you are also very vulnerable. Thats why, you should ALWAYS flank. After teamfight, get behind them, crouch, delete a healer, fight others a bit, then get out. I played Tracer like my Genji a lot before (I dont flank often. I play him like a DPS, similiar to Haksal. Though I flank heavily if their healer is carrying.) and it just doesnt work. She usually dies if you dont surprise your enemies. If you are in TF just select a target you want to dispose, or at least avert their attention (For example I do this to Ana's a lot. She has to deal with me while her team is fighting, and they get near-to none heals, and they lose the fight if your team isnt full of braindeads.)

Also you need to learn to juke heavily. For example, Soldier's Helix Rocket. If you know he has it, you have to expect it and juke it with blinks. Also after blink you need to keep the target on your crosshair, so you need to practice on that, its very hard to do consistently.
Most common mistake with Tracer : Trying to secure every kills. Tracer is great because she can create chaos and disturb the ennemy team (if there's a frontline to keep them busy) but unless you're a mad skilled player, it's better to play safe.

We're all compelled to kill at all cost, to finish the job when we see an ennemy about to die but if you also die in the process, it's a useless trade (except for hight value targets like the only healer). Against hight ranked players, it can be difficult to secure every kill with Tracer. She's fragile and a skilled player can kill you very easily despite your mobility and small hitbox. You need element of surprise and an escape plan in case you're spotted too soon. 

She's an hit and run fighter. You stay too long, you die.

So, as many players already said about her, a great Tracer is not necessary the one with the most elim, but the one who can stay alive and harrass the ennemy team for the entire game. Keep them busy, make them loose focus. You'll have plenty of opportunity to finish people off or even kill a healer while his teammates are shooting your Rein or Orisa =  it's a matter of opportunites.

Use flanck roads, wait for an opportunity, hit and run away. Do that ALL THE TIME and you will make them mad! They will chase you or loose focus on the fight. If can put your bomb in the frontline, you can even open the way for your team.

Genji Dragonblade Question
Lets say I see a Mercy (Or any 200hp hero) and I am going to pop dragonblade. Should I do;

A: Dash up into the sky, pop dragonblade, dash down to Mercy and start swinging

OR

B: Dash into Mercy, pop dragonblade, swing once, dash to kill.

I have always been using B as I loved the 1 swing kill, but then actually is it better to use A for more awareness of the enemy team's positioning? Thanks!B will be punished by good players if you do in the open because theres 0.5s start up. if you use A mercy might dash away.

option C would be to blade without any dash(if you are close) then if mercy uses GA you follow up with dash.
People dont do this a lot and its risky to do it but I usually get a person low, pop my blade, dash through them to the next enemy, getting a reset while dashing through them, then Slash > Dash combo to finish them all
I think A is horrible. Like, seriously. I have tons of experience with Genji and the higher you go, the more A just gets you shut down hardcore, plus not having the dash damage to start with is actually very noticeable.


I only use A for nano blades and thats only to make it easier on Ana. A is a low-rank option for easy awareness but you shouldn't need it to know where people are and its a bad habit to rely on it.
This. I just dont like why people do that except Nano Blade. If you want more awarness just look at the enemy positions for a second before blading. I use A rarely.
Hmm. Interesting. Well I'll stick to my usual B strategy then. 
With Mercy specifically I like to damage (with left clicks or dash), ult, dash and kill.

Probably the most important part is being aware of where Mercy is gonna GA to when she hears the blade come out.  Sometimes you can even pop ult inbetween her and the enemy she is probably gonna fly to and get a slash in as she flies by.  If she's not full health that and the followup dash will be enough to kill her.

The only other thing to watch out for are CC's, mostly Zarya shield cause that will shut your play down but also Flashbang/Hook/boop etc.  

A is good for Nanoblade, but it is massively telegraphed, and most players at my rank see the sky dash and know that nanoblade is coming out. If you do go for an A try to do it from the enemy's blindside so you don't telegraph your play.

I am a bad Lucio...
I'm not awful at Lucio, it's just that I'm not using him to his fullest ability. I usually just set him to heal only, stick with the team, occasionally do some wall rides, and roll with it. I feel bad if I switch to speed boost and do some wall rides or flanks. I'm also just not confident enough with my wall riding skills to fully just pull off some good moves. I love Lucio, i just feel loke im not doing him justice. Any tips, or advice to help me improve my Lucio? I am also a console player, which might help. You definitely need to use speed boost more as that's where Lucios strength is. In the middle of an intense team fight, having healing and amping healing up is usually the way to go but otherwise speed boost can be more effective.
Im a Lucio main and I tap that LShift like a fine Hispanic booty. It's all about managing both healing and speed boost. That's what makes you a good Lucio.
Lucio can heal but his strength relies in the abilith to close a distance. Dont be lulled into trying to heal. The game is not as flat as you think. 

Speedboost is EXTREMLY potent. Orisa running a static defense? Call a speedboost to close the distance and your rein can hammer away. Instead if you heald your rein will have a broken shield and a big hitbox essentially making him feed.


The most valued skill a Lucioplayer can develop and propably the toughest is to talk to your Team. You do have the mobility do get a good view of the battlefield. Your Position usualy allows you a good view too. You can delay attacks with your rightclick....

Talk to your Team what happens. Start with Basics like Genji in the backline. Or XY low. 

Work yourself up to tell them who´s winning the fight. (We are up 1. Or Down2..) This saves lives as much as your Aura.

Mastering this skill is making decissions like Targetselection (you see your soldier got ult -> give the command to Focus down their D.Va when she´s out of Position...)  Like "Go in in 3 2" -> Amp it up Speed. when the occation Looks good. or Counterdive when Winson genji jumps your zen. You boop them away and your Team goes in a 6v4 on their supports...
I definitely do. I do use it out of spawn and usually to route myself to allies in need. I occasionally use it to wiggle out of a bad situation, but I do realize I need to use it more
I've watched a lot of Lucio gameplay, and this seems like a consistent thing. I just need to find that balance. My main problem is that I feel like I'm letting my team down when I switch to speed boost. Sometimes I am the only healer (pretty much only qp I'll go Lucio if I'm solo healer) and I hate leaving my team behind. Thanks for the tip though!
Thank you for this! I am not super confident when it comes to communication, but I will start doing this. I've noticed a lack of communication bringing down some of my latest matches as well.
A good way is to look for friendly ults and amp up speed then. A rein shatter, a soldier ult, a reaper ult,  a genji ult, a McCree ult or a bastion ult all benefit hugely from speed boost. That's a good way to start using it more frequently so that you can learn when it's appropriate to amp speed. 
Think of it this way. Everyone knows the speed at which heroes move. Using speed boost throws off their aim prediction.
That actually helps. Especially on console, maybe it's just me, but aim is already a bit harder

Doomfist's New Hitbox Analysis (x-post from r/Overwatch)
People suggested to crosspost the original thread, so here i am. Plus, its monday so devs might see this if it raises enough awareness.


&nbsp;

https://www.reddit.com/r/Overwatch/comments/6xuimu/doomfists_new_hitbox_analysis/



&nbsp;

PS doing a cross post for the first time, i thought there would be a link-style posting feature but there is only a discussion style one, so i left the link to the original thread instead.
How much does a hardware upgrade improve a person?
I use an old laptop with a potato GPU for Overwatch. I manage 70fps at 50% rendering all settings low/off.

current CPU: i5-3230M

current GPU: AMD Radeon HD 8670M (1 GB DDR3 dedicated)

Season 5 Placement: 940sr 

Season 5 Final: 1700sr

Season 5 High: 1725sr

I'm wondering how much of a difference can upgrading (To a PC. I know laptops can't be upgraded) down the line make? I find 50% rendering a little hard to see. Has anyone had an experience where an upgrade has improved your performance immediately? I was in your situation once, I was using a Y510p (i7 4700m + gt750m 2gb) playing at 50% render on low topping out at 50fps. Things were blurry but I mained Junkrat for seasons 1 and 2 so there was really no need to aim there. But even so, playing him was so clunky and playing hitscan on that computer was even worse. After I built my pc, everything felt so smooth and it felt like I got better at the game. I haven't touched Junkrat since and now, I play mostly hitscan heroes.  I would recommend upgrading to a decent pc with a decently sized monitor (at least 24", 144hz is optional but it is worth it). I'm sure that the pc will last you a couple years while you can also upgrade down the line. Switching to a pc is a good investment imo.  
Well I was a sub 1900 SR player for the majority of season 1-4 using a shitty pc playing at 50% render 40 FPS all low/off, then, at the start of season 5 I got a new pc (100% render 170 fps, mixed settings), and quite literally that same day I went from 2000 to 2300 in one sitting, winning 17/22 games. From there I climbed to a max of 2902 but mostly hovered between 2700-2850.

I know correlation does not equal causation, but I definitely think the hardware upgrade made a massive improvement and was the biggest factor in that climb.
I would strongly recommend getting a huge mouse mat and maybe a 144hz monitor if you can afford it.
Old laptop: gold.. season high barely hit plat 2500ish then sunk in gold again. (But i suffered from d/c)

Gaming launge with half ping and double fps: diamond
Well I implemented 13 chips now and I would say I improved a lot as a person. Looking forward to buy the language chip now, so my english doesnt suck anymore!
I was playing Destiny on a 60 inch TV with probably 100ms+ and I didn't feel anything was slow but once I got a gaming monitor with 10ms... it felt so smooth to play and got my KD up (1.00 to 1.50) and that's just upgrading the moniter lol ( I know I'm talking about console but any GPU/CPU upgrade will upgrade performance) 
I'd just like to add, if you upgrade to a PC you can get a GPU quite cheaply that would be sufficient for OW. I'm pretty sure an RX560 would easily OW at good frames at medium or above and I believe it's only $100 USD 
Probably only if you can't get consistent performance on settings that are easy to look at, but other than that not much. Of all the improvements I've made to my PC I think a good mouse and a good headset are what helped the most. A 144hz+ monitor is also a great upgrade, but it's a major investment and not too major of a difference.
The two most important things you get from moving from a laptop to a dedicated gaming PC are the increased frame rate (even beyond the Hz of your monitor) which decreases input lag in general and makes aiming much more responsive, and the increased visual fidelity (especially resolution) allowing you to be aware of more of the battlefield which enhances your game sense. 

It's not an immediate improvement in your own performance, but it does give you better tools for improving your own performance. 
From what I've seen, it helps a lot if you are playing at really low FPS(basically anything below monitor refresh rate, so 60), but above that and it won't make as big of a difference. Used to play on a laptop 75% renderscale 90 fps and switched to a good 144hz rig and it was nice but no noticeable improvement(I was already playing at around a top 500 level with the laptop).
I've been playing Overwatch on my crappy laptop till mid season 5. I totally understand where you're coming from. Playing on 50% rendering was a nightmare

My craptop would run at best 60 fps on the lowest settings and dip to 20-30 fps when heavy teamfight is happening. Only recently last month, I've gotten myself a good enough rig to play Overwatch on 160fps at the highest settings and it made a huge difference for me.

I've always been placed in Gold at first and climbed up to Plat, but I could never get out of Plat for 3 seasons and it was frustrating cause I know I am capable of doing it. Once I got my new rig, I managed to climb to 3k and now I'm 3.2k in Season 6.

I'd say if you feel your fundamentals and game sense are good and you think that your current hardware is holding you back then I'd say do invest in a good PC.
I don't know if you'll immediately jump in SR, but you certainly can't improve much with the hardware you have.
i know a dude who went from a plat tank main to a masters dps main in one season when he got a new rig. gained 300 sr in the first three days and kept climbing from there. but he has insane mechanical skills and so it's not like it makes up for having bad aim or whatever.
dude i read the title and the first thing i thought off was sombra.. she would know a thing or two about adding hardware upgrades to a person :P
I'm using an i3 with a Geforce 970Ti display card (<$200), graphics all set to low, framerate bounces around 40-60 and ping is usually around 50ms.

Managed to climb from <2k SR to 2601 last season and I main Zen. 

Honestly, as long as you get the bare minimum, the only thing to improve is your mechanics. It's really great that you managed to climb from <1k to 1725SR, its a huge improvement and wish you all the best this season!


I was playing on an absolute trash tier laptop and placed 1100 in season 4. I've been playing on my brothers better pc (thanks bro :D) since end of last season coming into this season and I'm now mid gold with a 75% winrate. His pc isn't that great either, but I'm currently in the process of building my own one and I'm hoping that once I have my own set up I'll make plat. (I can dream) 
I never realised how much difference hardware made until now, and honestly ranking up was so easy once I actually had decent fps. 
Obviously one story isn't proof, so I guess you'll just have to see for yourself ;)
Oh that's why some people are blind when I play with them, they have shit pc... jk    
on serious note: you can update at least the HDD in your laptop to SSD, that helps a lot but imo it's not worth it in the long run...    
Get normal desktop that can run 60fps at low at least. you dont really need to run the game on ultra but you need no fps drops. also as mentioned, get decent mouse (some people preffer small, some big ones). idk about mat, I dont use any and it feels way better for me.
Enough big screen to see everything happening is the starting point imo. Ofcourse good mouse (well something that doesnt stutter and keeps track well) is one priority also
regardless if you get better at the game or not, having a nice pc is useful for work and other stuff too. i highly recommend building your own pc if you have the money(1000$+)
My laptop was not so bad, 4-year-old Asus N46VZ. Running 60FPS on low graphical settings. I was just built my PC, not too expensive, barely $1200 (monitor and speaker excluded). It was more of quality of life improvement.

Sure, you should aim more accurate because everything is so smooth. But playing the game in high settings on 27" monitor is more of a visual pleasing for me rather than intention to improve.
I personally went from a laptop to a custom built PC. Low settings 40 consistent fps to over 200. I found an old 75hz monitor at my house and managed to get from mid plat to masters over the summer
It'll help you mechanically for sure, I have a shitty 2013 macbook pro, difference in accuracy is night and day, scoped accuracy 57% on desktop, 40% on my laptop. 

I play on a smurf when i have to be on my laptop. for comparison I'm midmasters on my main on PC, low diamond on my smurf. poor equipment makes it harder to maintain awareness, harder to aim, harder to play the game in general. I do play mainly off meta on my smurf though, so take that into consideration
Depends on your skill.

It won't help a bad player, but will a good player.
My monitor occasionally would swap from 144hz to 60hz in the nvidia panel. 

I'd play really poorly and everything would feel off, but the moment I set it back to 144hz everything felt great and I was able to play so much better. 

But that might be due to dropping from 144 to 60 then being distracted by the lower frame rate after already getting used to 144fps.

Although... Back in the day I used to lay on my bed on my back with my laptop on my left and a mouse on my right, with no mousepad or anything and still kick ass in Cod blackops with the lowest of low settings.
I do manage an average accuracy of 40% each on Mccree and Zarya I hope I improve. Having a good mouse helps. I get your point. Thanks for sharing :)
Sounds great. Thank you for sharing!
This is very true. Also a good mouse makes a huge difference. I was somewhere around 2000 when I had a cheap laser mouse. Then I bought a better optical mouse (Nixeus revel) and instantly jumped to high platinum. I'm currently at 2850. The laser mouse also didn't sense fast arm movements well. My sens is 2.5 in-game at 1600 which is about 80cm per 360°
I have a Logitech G102 and a cheap "gaming" mousepad. I've noticed a big difference since I upgraded to the G102 especially in my 180 flicks. I'm not so sure about the 144hz monitor right now.
Oh Damn. That's nice!
All low settings compared to medium is night and day. Also you need more than 60fps consistently so in fights your frames don't dip too low.
Cool. Thanks for sharing.
tldr: if you are good, it doesn't matter.
Great to hear! I think I can climb a bit more on my current setup. Thanks for sharing though!
That's so cool. Thanks for sharing
If the instructions are in Spanish I'll have a hard time
Thanks! I think I can climb a bit more on my current setup. Thanks for sharing!
That's so cool. Thanks for sharing!
SSD only improves the loading times. I have a Logitech G102 which is a good mouse. The main thing I suffer from is the sub 60fps on 50% rendering (which looks horrible)
The screen would help. I have a good mouse though. Logitech G102. 
Tbh I'll be perfectly happy on Medium settings 75% render scale which looks way better than the crap I have right now. Thanks for sharing
That's impressive. Thanks for sharing!
That's quite a drastic difference. Thanks for sharing!
By the feedback this thread has got, it'll help an improving player to improve faster and raise his skill ceiling too.
Same my avg with old laptop. After upgrade i am hitting 60% so easily

Feel free to check my overbuff.com profile.

WeeZoo87#2222
Eyyyyyyy I just bought a revel and i love it!
Honestly its so worth it. It is just so smooth
I use all low settings and so do a ton of pros. I have recently switched from 75% render scale to 100% though after a year and I do like it better, but wouldn't say it strictly makes me a better player, same with low/medium settings. 

Yes dips are a big deal but I assume people are averaging or taking their lowest when they say FPS. There is also a lot more input lag at low fps, but your brain is pretty good at adapting and it won't hold you back majorly unless as I said your fps is super low.
Yeah cool keep in mind this dude does aim training drills and has been playing since season 2.
not only the load times, I used to have 5fps in WoW and after instaling SSD, I can play with 30-80 fps, test it out
So basically...

I should be able to go from 4.1k to near top 500 if i just had a better setup? (I have a really bad laptop that makes me play on 90fps even tho im used to more)
I see your point, but 50% render scale just makes it difficult to see stuff. There's a huge jump between 50% and 75%.
If you are 4.1k on a laptop I salute you. Who do you main?
Top 5 most played heroes (All Modes):

1. McCree

2. Widow

3. Genji

4. Tracer

5. Hanzo
Wow. I hope to get as good as you eventually!
Just keep playing FPS games and improving to be good at dps!

How to break habit of jumping too much?
Recently when watching vods of myself I noticed that I have a disgusting habit of jumping way too much in fights which leads to a large amount of my deaths and also messes up my aim.

I used to "main" pharah up until I got to around ~3700 sr, where I started to meet a lot of resistance and started to flex into most other dps, mainly soldier, tracer, and genji. This wasn't a problem until I started to become more flexible.

I've only tried changing my jump key to something new, and the habit quickly returned. Does anybody have any ideas for how to fix this habit, or how anybody else has done it? 

Thanks

Unbind it entirely until you stop doing it.
Why is jumping bad?

Bind it to something ridiculously hard to reach (e.g. enter)
Make it so you just don't have a jump button, or if on PC put it to right alt or something so you gotta take your hand off the mouse for a split second.
I killed two birds with one stone with that. Got in the habit of crouch spamming more (not used to using crouch AT ALL from previous games), and got out of the habit of spamming jump (well... more or less). I ended up binding crouch to spacebar, and jump to mousewheel up; caused me to randomly crouch spam for no reason for like two weeks, but in the end it helped me massively. Shame crouching is kind of a crapshoot in my elo (2700) since half the people here don't aim for your head anyway, better to just ADAD spam.

Mousewheel up is nice, since it means I have to take my finger off lmb to use it, making it much harder to spam in teamfights etc. But it's still very accessible when I need to reach higher areas or whatever.

On Genji, Winston, Tracer, Hanzo, Pharah, D.Va and a few others I've kept jump on space (since you can't hold scrollwheel up, and on some of these you need to be able to fire while jumping), and instead have crouch on A (caps lock if you use WASD).
I stopped doing it by replacing it with a crouching habit, lol. I bound crouch to scrollwheel-down so as I shoot I fiddle with the wheel while A/D strafing. Not sure if this is an actual healthier habit but I have had some pretty sweet headshot dodges!
Forget the binding thing. It's something that you need to be really conscious for at least a day of playing. Jump all you want at the beginning of the game then when the fight starts think *really* hard about it. After a week or so of jumping only when you need to. This is the best way to get rid of a habit IMO.
maybe the best option isnt to unbind jump altogether because you need to jump sometimes, but by making other movement options more accessible. put the Crouch button to a side mouse button or something close to your WASD so you can spam Crouch instead of spam jump 
Serious answer: during a Skirmish, find a Widow on the enemy team and ask them to shoot you from a distance because you want to practice your strafing. You have to try to ADAD strafe without jumping, and survive as long as you can. 
Jumping is so loud u r giving away ur position
Hard mode: bind your ult to your jump key.
It makes you very easy to hit, once you jump you have very little influence over your movement.
makes you very easy to track -  happens to me all the time when I do a mine jump with Junkrat; a good McCree or Widow can shoot me out of the air by predicting where I'm going to land
O-kay...
Soft mode: stick a strip of Velcro (hook side) to your spacebar / jump key. It's not painful but it's scratchy and surprising.

I used this to learn full-float arm mouse control - stuck a strip to the table edge to make my wrist-plants obvious and uncomfortable :\^)
Aah ok. Not at my level it seems =)
It's actually particularly true for Widow, the landing sound of her heels is insanely loud and obvious.
Prickly mode
After about 2k Sr is where jumping becomes a really bad idea. People have semi decent aim and quickly realize how easy it is to follow jump trajectories to line up hitscan shots or lead projectiles. 

It's still a bad idea at low SR simply because it becomes a habit. If you ever manage to climb to gold and above you have to break that habit to continue climbing. Better to use random strafing from the get go.
Agreed.

Best feeling ever is when you kill a Reaper who teleports to high ground and starts falling into your team for that POTG (did it twice to the same guy in the same game. He stopped doing it after that...)

Climbing as support
I main as Ana and fill in as mercy depending on what the team comp calls for. After my placements I got ranked low gold, but I've sustained a constant lose streak even though my healing has been on point. I feel like even if I am a godly healer, there is only so much I can do, only so many pharas I can pick off.

Other than the obvious "queue with good people", is there anything Im missing? I am still relatively new to OW, only level 30.You probably aren't doing the important stuff that isn't healing: damage boosting as Mercy, sleeping ults as Ana, Discording as Zen and speed boosting as Lucio.
I recommend to watch streams from pro Ana players like twitch.tv/gale_adelade

Pay attention to where he positions himself, his nade usage and how frequently he uses sleepdart. 
I personally am a believer that you can carry any game on any role. It's just that it's harder to carry on certain roles than others. If you are in a game where it feels like you're doing your job but nothing is getting done then switch off and do the job that isn't getting done instead. This is what Overwatch is all about. It's not about only playing dps, tank, or healer. It's about being flexible enough to play what the team needs to win the game. 
Be the shot caller.  

My instincts are better than my aim and I know it.  Supports are generally in the best position to see all/most of their teammates all/most of the time and really have the best look at a given battlefield playing out.  Use that advantage.  Create that advantage for your teammates.
Masters flex support/tank.
I have friends in gold/plat.  They biggest problem is they have weak mechanics, and weak hero pool.  

To improve mechanics, I suggest to start playing soldier 76, as he is a good basic hero.  Helix rockets helps with ana sleep dart accuracy,  Soldier's weak close range, means you have to get good positioning.  Get accuracy up to around 40%, hit your helix rockets, and get a high elim/death ratio.

To improve your hero pool for supports you have to get good at playing zenyatta, and lucio, depending on what your team composition.
Ana main here as well... I feel ya. I feel like I do much more for the team as McCree but im often going for the support role. Pretty much all my climbing was done in games where I played offense heroes.
Why is every fucking post here obsessed with climbing instead of getting better. They are not the same thing.
Sorry if I sounded like the stereotypical salty support. But yeah, I've trained enough to where I can consistently land sleeps on even ulting genjis. I can admit I am shit at knowing when to damage boost instead of heal as mercy though
I agree.
Its because everybody inherently thinks theyre better than they really are. The funny thing is that if you ignore SR and focus exclusively on improving your gameplay then climbing will happen on its own. Its not your teammates holding you back, and even if it was, theres nothing you ca  do about that. The only thing you can control is your own gameplay and if you cant figure out what you need to improve on then you absolutely deserve to be stuck where youre at because youre not being honest with yourself.
I climbed from 2200 to 3200 last season with Ana and Tracer.

The biggest difference I saw in myself was my positioning and my 'nade usage.

I used to play as an 'Attack Ana'. I was so confident in my ability to frag, I'd often push up without my team. So while I was focusing on fragging their lone Zen, my team needed heals during a small fight. I learned to step back. Yeah, I'm a good fucking Ana, but I'm not about to wipe the team alone. So now I don't push at all unless the majority of my team is in front me.

I also stopped holding onto my abilities. I'd always save the 'nade to heal myself because I was often a solo healer. I stopped doing this because I saw how much of a benefit the enemy team being anti'd was. I learned to use my anti-nade a lot more often. It makes team fights a lot easier. 

As for sleep darts, if you're as good as you say, then just remember to call them out when they're sleeping. Also, if you're wary of a flanking enemy, make sure you have your dart ready and to notify the team of what's going on. "Hey guys, I'm pretty sure this Genji's about to mollywhop us if we leave him alone back here."

PS: Avoid using the pronoun 'I'. Talk in the third person. When there are 12 players running around in a game, "Ana is about to be in trouble! Help!" is a lot more helpful than 'I'm in troubl- FUCK!'
Hey welcome to OW! It can be hard to tell as a beginner, but there is always a way to improve yourself. I'll try to give you a few tips to help you out.

The most critical part of being a support is staying alive. Other roles can get away with dying if they secure multiple kills, but healers are critical to winning prolonged fights. Whenever you die, think carefully on what caused you to die. These are some common questions to ask:

- Were you standing too close to the frontline?  
- Were you too far from your team? 
- Did you hear enemy footsteps behind you, but did not react appropriately?
- Could you have used your mic to ask for help against a flanker?

If you die, not only does your team not get any heals, you delay your ultimate from charging and/or lose the ability to use a well-timed ultimate.

Here are some Ana and Mercy specific tips as well.

**Ana:**

For Ana, it is critical to manage your cool downs. Sleep dart is vital for stopping charging reins, road hogs who are hooking your ally, ulting enemies and numerous other dangerous abilities. If you notice that these threats don't exist or are on their own cool downs, then you can use it more liberally. 

The same applies for biotic grenade. Only use it to heal your allies if they might die if you don't. Saving that cool down could mean securing important kills or saving multiple allies seconds later.

You are very immobile as Ana. Stay where you have line of sight if your team, but are difficult for an enemy to reach. Put your team between yourself and the enemy so it takes more work for you to be reached. If you're still being flanked and having trouble, ask for help or move closer to your team so they can keep you alive.

As for whether you should be healing or doing DPS, prioritize healing. Unless a target is 1 shot, you shouldn't be risking one or more allies dying for a single kill.

**Mercy:**

When it comes to boosting or healing, the short answer is always heal if someone needs it. Keeping a tank alive is more important than boosting your pharah for a chance on a kill for example. In reality, it is a bit more complicated, but if you're unsure, start with that. 

When everyone is full hp, switch to boost. One trick here is if you expect your targeted ally to get hit by burst damage (ex. grenade, rocket or fire strike), switch to heals right before they get hit. This will reduce the likelihood of them dying from other damage coming in at the same time.

Staying alive largely depends on your awareness of your teammates positioning. Do your best to know where you can fly to at ALL times. If there is high ground, ask someone who excels up there to go there. Characters like hitscans, Pharah, Winston and DVA can get you somewhere high and out of danger. 

Note that your heal/boost range is very long. You almost always want to use it near maximum range to put yourself away from danger. Cancel your guardian angel early so you don't fly right to your target who is in the front lines. Stay on high ground and heal your allies below you if it means enemies will have a hard time attacking you.
What I usually do is if they're already at full health, switch to damage boost. I typically switch from one team mate to the next applying the boost (akin to switching team mates while ubering in TF2).

I had to learn quickly with Mercy that there is no overheal feature like in TF2.
It's pretty straightforward. If there's no-one to heal, damage boost.
I just wish the mods would step in and remove the shit threads that are related to SR instead of the game itself. They're useless.

How do placements work in this situation?
Suppose it's a group of 6 and their last season ranks are as follows:

Bronze
Silver
Gold 
Gold 
Platinum 
Diamond

Would it match them with diamonds, with combined sr of last season or does it depend on who hosts/ searches for the game?In a normal 6-stack, the MM would take the average MMR of the players and then adds 600 SR to that number to compensate for the team size. Or at least the MMR equivalent of 600 SR, cause that's the trend I've noticed after a friend pointed it out to me. 

In placements, I'd assume it would still work the same way, while using the season end MMR.

In any case, the host of the party does not matter at all, that much I'm sure of.
Remember, that is one impossible group to begin with. The max SR difference allowed is 1000, so the highest level a bronze could group with would be 2499 (if player was 1499) and the highest a silver could match with would be 2999, etc...

I've seen the one other comment about averaging the SR and then adding 600...and that may be correct...but I have never seen anything confirmed about adding SR. The averaging of SR across both teams is thought to be logical, but again, I'm not certain the OW team has ever specifically laid this out.

Primary concern: if players understand the details, they will find a way to exploit them.

Good to know. Thank you.
everybody can play together for the placements. they still have no rank
Wow I did not know this. As much as Blizzard touts their MMR/SR system, I'm really surprised they allow this, and of all things in competitive.

Gaining quite a bit less SR this season compared to last season.
So far I've done my 10 placements and some games after that, I got placed at 3300 and my winrate right now is 64% and I sit at about 3250. I noticed they got rid of the beginning SR boost after doing placements but I also noticed that I am receiving way less SR for a win compared to Season 5

In Season 5 I feel I'd gain about 27-34SR per win but now I feel i'm getting about 19-24SR, I'm losing about 23-28SR.

Could me gaining less SR be because I'm at a higher rank than I was last season? Or is there some other reason behind it?

I ended season 5 at about 3150 with my most played being Mercy having about an 80% winrate, now in season 6 i'm currently at about 3250 with a 64% winrate on Mercy (I hope to have about a 75% winrate eventually)They fixed the sr gain for characters like mercy, sym, torb, junk and orisa, because you were able to climb with them, even if your winrate was below 50%.
You were placed closer to your mmr, so you probably should gain normal amounts of sr modified by your performance each game. You were placed higher than last season end so the sr system doesn't feel it should give you more points to get you closer to your mmr as you probably were already placed around it. 
>I hope to have about a 75% winrate eventually

will never happen if you play a lot of games, really good players have 60% winrate

>my most played being Mercy

there you have it, now you have normal SR gains like everyone else
Definitely not true with Sym. I stopped maining her because I had to maintain a ~66% winrate just to keep my SR stable. Regardless of performance, I always loss way more from a loss than I gained from a win. 
Losing more SR than you gain isn't normal SR gains
which is good to punish dumb otps that are borderline trolling
it is, because you underperfom probably if you get less SR. this used to be the case for most heroes, now they fixed it and all the mercy and some other mains cry. this is a good change, this means no more boosted mercy mains in the next few months.
Heaven forbid other people should play a game in a way that I don't approve of, right?
OP has a WR well above 50%. I don't think it makes sense that he is underperforming and getting carried in all his games given his current and previous WR
sorry nobody wants your sym on koth or attack, just stop griefing your teams.
read his post. he climbed to 3100. yes he had high winrate but he got htere so fast BECAUSE he got that high SR gains. now hes even higher ranked(which im fine with) but gains less SR(how it should be). those are just the changes to s6.

Zarya VOD (high master/gm)
This is me on my smurf playing mainly Zarya although I do switch to soldier and genji for a little bit.

I'm not too sure what more I could've done to save the game - we didn't exactly have competent dps and I saw my team had ults that they didn't use to save the point.

https://youtu.be/2VjKs7VHeo4

A break down would be nice, thanks.

Also OBS broke, yet again, so my coms weren't shown although you can see my discord flashing. My friend was... tilted as you could hear.
do you usually play zarya or not? i could take a look later
My only critique is that sometimes you charged the Zarya. How do you charge her ult so fast though? 

where to start improving?
hey there everyone, 

im looking to improve and get better, as im sitting at around mid gold however im struggling to think about where to begin, ive just got some questions that im stumped on

1- how many heros should  be my  "main" so to speak, i can fill with pretty much any hero, but im just wondering where the sweet spot lies of mastering "x" amount of heros, and is it helpful to master hero's that have a similar play style, eg genji and doomfist, or soldier and mcree, as their skill sets carry over to each a bit.

2- how often should i be training my aim, and for how long each time i do, as i have no idea if i should just train each day indefiantly, or if there is a time where my aiming should just average out

3- what would everyone recommend for you-tubers that do quality guides on heros?

4- by playing non-hitscan heros such as sym or doomfist allot going to decrease my overall aim? would it be helpful to just play hitscan/more aiming orientated heros at the moment to try and focus my aiming overall?

anyway i think thats all the questions ive got at the moment. i know being gold and everything a should be just playing and gradually getting experience, but id just like to really focus on getting better rather than running around games like a headless chicken. :-)1. 2 heroes (IMO), just a main and a fallback character (I played only one role though)

2. 30 minutes before playing take little break, 1 qp then comp

3. Rein and/or how much you need to be active in OW, must watch and funny: https://youtu.be/jmzXatYTfZA

I also believe if you can't play Rein from time to time well, you can't play anything well.

Skyline for general improvement.

Qwark28 for vod reviews. Good at telling you where you are lacking.

4. You don't need much aim to win games. But training for it is good and will create more advantageous situations where you carry. But no need to play aim intensive heroes.
Video linked by /u/Brassens_d:

Title|Channel|Published|Duration|Likes|Total Views
:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:
[[Tilt Warning] Sub VODs - Plat/Gold Flame Subscriber Stack - Gibraltar](https://youtu.be/jmzXatYTfZA)|flame|2016-12-05|0:25:50|211+ (97%)|10,039

> I am a professional player and aspiring caster/analyst for...

---

[^Info](https://np.reddit.com/r/youtubot/wiki/index) ^| [^/u/Brassens_d ^can ^delete](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=_youtubot_&subject=delete\%20comment&message=dmjiebd\%0A\%0AReason\%3A\%20\%2A\%2Aplease+help+us+improve\%2A\%2A) ^| ^v2.0.0
thank you very much for the advice, ill be sure to check these channels out :-)
I would just like to add that Deathmatch is a very good way to warm up as well before comp. Useful youtube channels such as OneAmongstMany, Skyline and IoStux. I also like vod reviews from many sources, particularly Trilby for his snark.

How to keep the morale up?
After losing a few games, always seeing the same heroes return, being shit and the game and not knowing how I can possibly improve, how do you keep your morale up?

I honestly just feel like uninstalling OW.Pick a hero you enjoy, pick one new skill you want to learn with that hero. Your next mission (should you choose to accept it) is to learn that skill, not to win games.
After countless hours of Plat-brats picking 4-5 DPS heroes on any given segment of the map and procedurally flaming each other I have reached a state where I can say with confidence "Yep, I can see this working."

I just embrace the chaos and make the most out of it. Voluming down incoming voice chat helps wonders for the sanity as well.
Open your mind a little bit with respect to "bad" picks and heroes. Start to basically not give a fuck as to your team's comp and just try to make it work. What rank are you at? I know that at certain tiers comp isn't as important as just fragging the fuck out and doing well on whatever you're playing. 

So next time you get an attack Torb or a KOTH Symmetra, don't just immediately give up(mentally speaking of course) but try and adopt the mentality of doing the best you can(and working with your team by shot calling, trying to make good calls and coordinate people) to win the game. 

Also try and improve with "impact" characters - if you're a support then try and move off Lucio and mercy(for now - Mercy buffs might change this) and move onto Zenyatta and Ana. For tanks try and play Zarya or Roadhog more, or maybe Winston if you feel it will work. DPS you can basically play whatever as long as it'll work. Of course don't try and "force" any of these picks, so for example if your team needs a Dva or Winston don't try and force a Zarya or Roadhog pick. With these heroes you can have more of an impact on the game so your individual performance counts for a little more if that makes sense.
Like Genji left clicks...

Source: I am a shocking Genji :(

Another problem with my friend
I main genji on our competitive team (only in-game comp, no tournaments) and my frined who mains winston, lucio and hanzo has started playing him and is essentially stealing genji from me because he wants to start maining him.
 I am the better genji with more hours played and a LOT more game sense and about 100 levels higher than him.

How can i politely tell him that i main genji or should i suck it up. any other suggestions would be appreciated.

Thanks.Sounds like he's inspired to learn Genji because of your success. Teach him! Teaching is a great way to improve your own skills.

And also: let him know that you'd like to continue maining Genji for the most part. "Hey I know you want to learn Genji, which is great. I still want to mostly play Genji when we play together, though. Want me to review a Genji vod for you?"
Take turns and support each other?

Why is this not common sense?
Just do what my friend and I do. We both have similar hero selection, Soldier and McCree for DPS, D-Va (only one only he mains) and Zarya for tanks, Zenyatta, Mercy and Ana for heals. We switch every other game, depending on what we feel like playing. One game I play Zen, the next game he plays Zen, etc. 

If you are a better Genji, help him get better, and look for another hero in the game you can do equally good with and start learning. The more heroes you master, the better player you become.
I had a similar problem with two of my friends a couple seasons back. They both were best at mercy and would always dispute over who got to play her in game. Either way it sucked because the person who wasn't on Mercy was a huge liability. So if you're going to one trick a hero, make sure it's not one that another one of your friends is already playing. Or even better, just learn how to play more than one hero so you guys can alternate. 
Classic soon Genji one trick.. grow up. Your mate is inspired by your Genji play. Teach him so you both improve as players.
Should probably not main a dps if you want to go them nearly every game.
Let him know, and if he doesn't stop only play QP with him. Offer to spectate/coach him (: 
You gotta play more than one hero.  The game is more about team synergy than solo deflection kills.
Tell him when he plays genji with you it forces you onto a hero you don't know, and seeing how he is still learning ask him if he thinks having a team of 4 plat +2 gold is better than having a team of 6 plat. (Use that line at your own discression)
Ok thanks so much
BEcause he always instalocks genji
Ok, I will think about that thanks
I can multiple heroes, it is just that I main genji for dps
ok
i don't, just don't want to be stuck playing tanks (who i am not that good at)
His friend has multiple hero's he's playing.  This guy can apparently only play genji.
You guys middle-schoolers?
Learn to play one one trick dps's are a pain especially in duo queue.
i can playing almost every hero, just that i main genji for dps

GM reviews Platinum Winston/Reinhardt on Lijang tower
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gfiRDqeMxEQ

This is my first VOD review, please feel free to tell me how I can make it better. Also if you disagree with anything I said tell me how retarded I am. Thanks for watching!
The state of Junkrat
Hi there! GM & Tank main here. Was just curious on everyone's thoughts on JR with the changes. Too strong? Just fine? Any and all feedback would be interesting.

Personally I feel he's a little too strong. Not hard to deal with, just very, very unfun. Add a Pharah to that mix, and you have a recipe for pure salt. (And with the upcoming Dva changes, I can see this being even worst)The double mine allows for so many kills that otherwise/pre-patch woulda either resulted in me dying before I had a chance to do more damage or the enemy getting healed/escaping. 

The mobility thing is cool as well. I still blast myself to the same spots on most maps but the second mine is nice to have as a way of escaping quickly after, kinda like Pharahs concussion blast is used to zoom away in a pinch.

Facing new junkrat I don't see much of a difference. I play around 2000SR, you just never got advanced junky techniques in games here even in previous seasons. I do notice the ultimate a lot more though. The speed makes it more effective for sure. He's still fragile so up close, while he can do a ton of damage, it's not always foolproof
Hey so i'm a mid-diamond player that would have called myself an off-tank/lucio until the last patch. I've also always played a bit on junk but whenever I queued for comp or a scrim with my team i never really got to play him. I don't know for sure yet that that will change but I can definitely say i'm on the road to becoming a junk main just from the recent changes alone. I think he's definitely too strong atm but also not exactly because of the recent changes. The point of the 2nd mine was to give him more mobility which I definitely appreciate. The issue is that the player isn't forced to use it for that and so allows for some ridiculous kills using both mines and nothing else (such as killing a mid-air phara for example.) While i love the ability to do this it probably shouldn't something junk can do. If this is a direction blizzard wants to take him i'm all for it but they definitely need to reduce his ult build by a significant amount (i've been known to get it in 30-40 seconds), and possibly turn down his total damage output by a bit.
I think hes probably fine. Maybe some ult adjustment later down the line if needed (ult gain rate and audio bug? fix).

I think when you take a hero that was underwhelming and buff it/make if viable you get this sort of overreaction you see. 
in the 10 placements game i played, i got around 5 junkrats. one of them was even tviq in my last game and during all of those 5 games died not once to junkrat. i dont feel like hes op at all. considering he was a trash hero before i like to see him more often. if you go into close range or small rooms against him its your own fault. people just need to adapt.
Junk rat is very strong right now, extremely scary in a shield spamfest.  But weak against pharah/widow.
I'm of the opinion that a single mine with increased knock up distance and a lower cooldown would have been a better mobility fix, and letting him set a second trap would have been a better utility fix. I hear alot of complaints about his RIP Tire, but personally haven't viewed it as any more broken than most damage Ults.
He seems to be about on par with soldier. Perhaps a little bit less, The tire speed and wall climbing are nice, but the flying seems a bit ridiculous. 
I think the changes were unnecessary. If other people had similar experiences to me, they'd have noticed junkrat was seeing more and more play on the back end of season 5. Likely a combination of riding hype for the changes, and I do genuinely feel he was a good dive counter being able to set traps and OHK so many small flankers. 

The perception of his power is probably being skewed further by deathmatch, which he was always going to excel in. 

I don't think he'll be game-breaking, because what we're seeing in reponse is more pharahs which is in-turn necessitating hitscan. We're headed back to where we started I think. 
A little OP right now. I love the change to his tire, as it's not such an easy target anymore. Might be a tad too fast but I think it's ok right now. It's still definitely possible to take it out.

As for the mines, having two is great for mobility, but they need a damage nerf. In order to keep the trap+mine squishy kill combo they could increase the trap damage and reduce the mine damage so the combos net change is 0. 
it's annoying as fucking shit and probably 80% of the time I die to a junkrat who wasn't even trying to kill me
Trap should not more than 50dmg.

A mine should not do more than 50dmg

He's ok with less dmg
I really would like less air control for the enemies on the mine. You can't really knock someone to the side if they just walk in the opposite direction while in the air.
I feel like McCree is far more powerful in deathmatch. I do feel as if his tire is too aerodynamic. Flying tires be crazy.
I'd be fine with that if you change his primary to 150-200 damage. So the combo still works.

Although that would be crazy op on the primary.
That would relegate him to shit-tier

How do I play Winston in the current Reaper meta?
While I am a tank main, Winston is certainly my favorite of the bunch.  My issue is that in about half my games this season, the other team has a reaper that renders me useless.  As a Winston player (Gold - 2250), how I can change my play to not be immediately countered by Reaper, and how can I coordinate my team to help me counter him?Stay away from him. 
Winston main - while yes, Reaper will pretty much hard counter you if you try to 1v1 him, it's not necessarily a must-switch as soon as you see Reaper. Weigh up the other 5 players on their team first - if Reaper is the only thing giving you trouble you can switch up your playstyle (other heroes that will continue your struggle include Zenyatta, D.Va, McCree, others dependent on your playstyle).

If Reaper *is* the only hero giving you hassle, you can start playing with one thing in mind. If they are running straight to you consistently, *you* can control where that Reaper has to be. 

* Force him to peel for you out of a teamfight and then dive away from him back into the fight for a 6v5 advantage

* Learn to engage him from angles where he can't see you while you have jump ready; jump away when you have his attention

* Learn how to create burst damage with Winston - landing a short jump directly on someone, and adding in a melee hit will allow you to kill your usual targets faster before Reaper can stop you, or even burst kill a mid-to-low health Reaper and give yourself breathing room

* Try not to "survival ult" with a Reaper focusing you - while ulting may heal you back to full, you essentially become a much easier target to focus and even mildly competent Reapers will use all 1000hp of angry monkey to build ult fast

* "Bubble dancing" isn't always hugely effective against Reaper as more often than not your shield will get shredded before you can kill him. Use it as a last resort to finish a low health Reaper if needs be

* Use ults as wisely as possible. A cheeky environmental kill will remove him entirely (obviously) 

* Consider what else the Reaper is doing against your team. If he isn't focusing you and is instead heavily harrassing your backline, you may want to consider switching at this point

* Above all else, Reaper is short range and you have high mobility. Play with the fact that you basically can't kill him alone in mind as much as possible and assess how well you're doing the rest of your job.
Team up with a Zen. Discorded Reapers are just dinner at that point.
Mid plat winston main here... Learn D.Va. Seriously. When the enemy has a Reaper or switches to one I switch right away. Often times they will go back to a different DPS after they see Winston is gone and depending on what youre ult economy is  like you may be able to go back to our loveable scientist.
I'm slowly discovering my love for Winston in Gold, and I've found that unfortunately he is not a jack of all trades main.

I've found on certain maps and game modes he's hard to play, and I've found certain enemy combinations usually require a switch.

Reaper by himself I've actually had luck with. The bubble shield dance with Reaper can usually at least force him to disengage.

However if Reaper is on you while you're attempting to focus someone else, you've got to leave if possible.

I've also found Bastions incredibly hard to play against.

Zenny by himself is manageable, but usually a half decent soldier can rip you apart if you're discorded.

You just have to learn your weaknessess and don't be afraid of learning a 2nd tank.

I am still searching for mine. Post change DVa may do it, but I am having a lot of fun with Orisa and Zarya.

Also, I encourage everyone to be at least moldy confident with at least one healer. It just helps everyone. Mercy is probably the easiest right now, but there still is some skill to be developed in her positioning and mobility. 
Personally, when an enemy switches to Reaper to counter my Winston, I consider it a good sign. It means they're afraid of me. That's good; it means I'm doing something right.

You just have to make sure that Reaper never ever ever gets to face off with you alone. Avoid him when you can, and coordinate with your team so that you can have backup when you can't. Dive with a friendly D.Va, or take jumps into sightlines that a friendly sniper has covered. If you get caught out by Reaper alone, bubble dance for as long as possible and leap out ASAP.
It's a simple answer: Don't go near him. I understand that he may be fed by healers, but if that's the case, try and find others to engage with. You simply can't be near him, same with a highly armored doomfist. 
In gold there is hardly ever a time when everyone's grouped up. Winston is king at winning 1v1's against unsuspecting victims.

 Also use high ground to drop onto groups of enemies stay as long as you can with your shield and then leap out because you used high ground to fall on the enemies. You only need to do that 2 maybe 3 times to get your ult.
Honestly when I play winston against reaper I'm fucking ruthless towards him.  I try to make him wraith as much as possible and if he's not getting pocketed usually I'll take the 1v1 when he doesn't wraith.  Good mechanics around the bubble can easily win the 1v1
As others have said, if reaper sits in the back line, that means he can't do anything to your team. Feel free to focus the other dps or help give your team space in the fight. If he gets involved in the fight, that means the back line is open, and you can go in as normal. Play away from the reaper and keep an eye on him, he can't be everywhere at once.
If reaper is staying back with the healers, you probably switch. Maybe you have a dva blocking his shots or something specific like that 
Switch to reinhardt
lol theres no reaper meta
First of all, if you are having serious trouble against a Reaper you can always just switch off. Unfortunately there aren't an amazing pool of heroes to switch off to if you are already filling the main tank role. Reinhardt is probably your best bet and playing D.Va instead of having a main tank is probably your next best option. 

Most of the time when I play Winston I manage to out play enemy reapers so I don't have to switch and here's what I do. You have to act as Reaper bait. Pull him away from his team and then jump back to yours to separate him. After separating him jump into his team's backline and do your thing. The best thing you can do in that matchup is take up as much of his time as possible. Winston has way more mobility so if you play safe you can easily stay out of his effective range. The problem with this is that if the Reaper doesn't take the bait then you end up jumping all over the place and doing nothing. In this scenario just switching off is usually best. 
What if he's bunches with the healers?
It isn't that bad. Prenerf hog was always a greater danger and there have been numerous times I've stomped a team with a reaper as Winston 
Only problem is that D.Va is a pretty bad solo tank, so you end up suffering in other areas as a result

Lol at moldy confident... describes my confidence with lucio and ana aptly.
Think I left something up to assumption in the post that isn't true; I'm not a one trick Winston.  Winston is my favorite character and my "main", but I love playing any tank, and can flex to a decent Lucio and Mercy
You don't have to engage. 

If you pick a fight with Reaper in the vicinity, you will feed. If Reaper wants to sit in the backline all game, fine, he can't do anything there, while you can still contest high ground and push forward and create space for your team. Reaper will get sucked into the fight eventually, and then you can dive supports, if you really want to. 

Reaper isn't a great hero unless the map is very close-quarters (think Anubis Point B), if you just stay away from him, he's going to struggle to do anything productive. 

EDIT: Try using your Jump Pack to disengage, i.e., get onto the high ground, and drop down to engage, rather than leaping in with it. If you get instantly focused by Reaper, and you have no Jump Pack, you feed, but if you still have your Jump Pack, you can escape. You sacrifice the jump damage, but you're able to quickly exit the fight once you can tell it's a losing situation. 
Switch to DVA. Overwatch is a game of counters, not trying to make whichever hero you want to play work at a certain time.
Your healers or their healers? If with your healers then you would be pushing him away and your healers keeping you alive. If it is their healers then he's probably not playing in his effective range so you can ignore him and harass someone else. You don't necessarily have the dive the enemy healers if it doesn't make sense to do so. 
Attack the other DPS. Then he has to frontline or his team will fall apart. Also look for opportunities to gang up on him/attack him when he's low.
Then switch off. For all the people that are crying about defense matrix and want it nerfed, there's at least six heroes that laugh their way thru it. But boo whooped I don't want to have to switch off soldier
I guess I'm leaving it now... Lol
Ah well. In that case. Shield dance reaper. Hang around the edge of the bubble and try to only engage him if he's alone.

Helps if you surprise him. I find that jump damage (jump melee if you can) helps spook the living-dead daylights out of him. 
Will DVA still work after her nerf?
This is kinda true yes, but dva instead of Winston isn't a good swap. Instead you either want to have a teammate swap to dva, or punish anyone that isn't with the reaper. Let your team focus him whenever he wants to do anything and then if you can get his wraith form down you can shield play him and kill him. 
[deleted]
Trying to get your teammates to focus a Reaper with only 2 seconds of Matrix... good luck
lol ego
Dva has traded part of her old role - standing around providing cover while your teammates attack - in return for greater self-sufficiency from a more varied & combo-capable toolkit. The old way won't work anymore, no, but that just means a re-approach is needed. 

Facing reaper, you now have options like boosting into his face with your own shotguns blazing AND dumping missiles AND using matrix to negate his counter-fire, *all at the same time*. Or save the boost for an escape.
You can matrix while using your missile barrage, so use wisely
2 seconds is plenty of time, if everyone on your team focuses him.

If he has no wraith form, he's dead meat. 

Edit: words and stuff

“New” player seeking some advice
So you may be wondering, why is new in quotation marks? Well I’m not technically new to Overwatch. The first time I picked up the game was during a close beta weekend and I purchased the game for XBOne and played super casually. Then back in February I moved to PC. Season 3 I placed 1800 (and dropped to 800 due to getting salty about everything) so I quit. Then I ran in to an old friend of mine and found out he played OW and was teetering between Master and Grandmaster. With his help, I was able to climb to just below diamond. Once again, I got extremely frustrated with playing and just moved on.

And you may be thinking, dude maybe Overwatch just isn’t for you. You may be right, maybe I just SUCK at this game. I hadn’t played until before the end of season 4 when I picked up the game again yesterday. 

The big reason I’m giving it another shot is because my wife LOVES this game. It’s her biggest hobby and with our current schedules we don’t see each other a ton. I want to get in to this game, so that she doesn’t feel guilty playing during the time are together. So it’s worth h a shot.

I completed my placement matches and I place at 2608 which is probably higher than I deserve. I guess I should get to my question now.

What characters should I pick up and try to get proficient at? I don’t have a ton of draw to any single character and willing to give anything a shot. When I was practicing my aim, I was pretty decent but I’ve since heard Ana bots are worthless. So please help a dude out with some pointers that I can dive deeper in. I know it’s an uphill battle. This game has been out for a while now and there is always going to be someone who is better. But what are the things I can spend my limited time focusing on so that I can improve?

Tl;dr Need general advice on characters to focus on and where to best invest my limited time to get betterHave you thought about talking to your wife and saying that there isn't a reason to feel guilty about enjoying a game you just can't get on with? If you're forcing yourself to play it, then that can't be fun.
Monkey and Lucio are solid picks if you have problem aiming, Soldier is kinda easy to aim compared to other hitscans and overall always been self sufficient pick , Pharah is very strong and you do no need to have godly aim with her to perform at fairly high level. 
Who does your wife like to play? It might be fun to select characters that complement her choices. 
Play a couple days of Mystery Heroes. I never would've played Mei or Bastion on my own, until I realized I clicked well with them during Mystery Heroes.
Idk if this will make sense or not but it worked for me when I was also getting very frustrated with this game for a while. People will tell you to just play whatever hero you enjoy, but I'm going to suggest something a little backwards. Instead of finding a hero you really like and mastering him, I suggest you find the one thing that frustrates you the most and just avoid that thing. I'll try to explain. For me, I really enjoy winston. I love his kit and his character and his style. But the thing I hate the most in this game is dying a lot, and winston tends to do that since his job is to jump into the enemy team and he has to rely on his allies supporting him. Once I realized that I hate dying more than anything, I started picking up more self reliant heroes. Roadhog, bastion, soldier etc. I found that my overall enjoyment was much higher and I got frustrated much much less than I was before. I found the thing that tilted me, and I found out how to avoid it. This won't work for everyone but it's just my suggestion. Maybe you really like playing mcree but you hate never having a rein so you pick up Reinhardt instead. Idk something like that lol. If you find that games where there's no healer are super frustrating, try putting in time with all the healers to see if one clicks that you can start maining to ensure you are never lacking a healer again
My advice is to try each hero for several QP and find out if one of them "click" with you. Even if he's technically difficult to play, if you love it, you'll give the proper time to master it.

One thing I try to understand is the reason you get frustrated with the game every time. Feels like you don't enjoy it unless you can be one of the best. 

You've played just below diamond = you don't suck. There's people better, and people worse. You're in the middle. Maybe you need to forget the ranking and all that and just enjoy the game with your SO...

Just sayin.
I have. It’s really not so much that I’m forcing myself, I just want to give it an actual shot. Like actually try to be good at the game, instead of just expecting it to happen. I guess it’s the first video game that I’ve ever played that I wasn’t just naturally decent at. 
Thanks! I’ll give them a spin and see where I land. I appreciate the input!
She’s a mercy/Ana main, so that leaves tank or DPS :)
Fair enough. As far as heroes go, I would suggest you play what you feel most comfortable as. Winston is an easy hero to pick up, and so is reaper, but really if you're trying to get back into the game, I wouldn't be surprised if you find an affinity with other heroes than the ones people on reddit suggest. If improving is your goal, you'll definitely find something you're good at on the way.
D.Va plays well with Mercy! I main both 
You could Pharmercy it up! Or Reaper or McCree could be good, you could watch her back. Maybe Rein or Orisa + Ana. 
I appreciate the advice :) I like McCree. But I don’t feel like I’m good enough to justify taking a DPS spot in comp. Maybe I should just get over the fear!
Dude, McCree is super fun, by far my favourite hero at the moment. I went from being absolutely awful at him like 4 months ago to him now being my main pick in all modes (but particularly comp). This is coming from someone who didn't really play shooters much until OW, so you can imagine how god awful my aim was. And I had the same issue as well, I never felt like I was good enough to justify playing him in comp, even with 20 or so qp hours (I already played dps, but mostly Reaper/76/Genji which are much easier if your aim isn't great). Luckily my duo partner told me to pick him, otherwise I probably still wouldn't feel ready at this point haha.

Like, if you think he's a good pick, just go for it dude. You can always switch later if it isn't working.
There are also the deathmatch game modes now. I've been practicing Pharah in between comp matches, and I'm much more confident on her now, so if you don't want to practice McCree in Comp, I'd go there! Good luck!
So I tried a bunch of different heros in FFA and TDM. I’m actually surprisingly decent at Tracer. So I think I’m going to give that a shot! She’s a blast and I really appreciate all your help!

How do I politely tell my friends they suck?
So I've been playing with 2 RL friends for about 3 seasons now. We never climb when we play as a 3-stack. Both of them have been stuck in Bronze ever since they started playing. The last 3 seasons I've managed to climb to gold just by solo-queuing when they're not online and generally avoiding comp with them. They, however, believe they are victims of MMR hell and that it's Blizzard's matchmaking that is causing them to remain in Bronze. 

This season we've picked up 2 new people playing with us who are actually pretty good (gold and high silver), but we still can't climb as a 5-stack. I'm almost certain it's because of the first 2 mentioned friends, because they make a lot of misplays and don't do their job well (Rein main but drops his shield a lot "so he can run faster"). I know MasterOverwatch/Overbuff isn't the definitive guide to a good player but both of them rank in bronze in almost every single stat every game for their hero.

I try reminding them in game by shot-calling for them, but they don't seem to take me seriously. I've tried sending both of them links to good YouTube videos / streamers for their heroes, but they never watch them.

I feel guilty now because we've got 2 new people who are gonna get their ratings tanked because these 2 won't take it seriously. However, I know if I start to get pushy with them, they will tell me it's "just a game" and that I'm taking it too seriously.

EDIT: Thanks for your advice everyone. I've confronted one of them about it and he's said he won't do training drills/watch gameplay/send VODs for criticism because "it's boring", and as expected told me that I take it too seriously. After a bit of a minor disagreement I've said I'm not going to play comp with him if he doesn't care that his laziness is affecting my rating. I'm sure our friendship will bounce back but at least it's done now and I can focus on myself again! Thanks for the help OSU!It sounds like they honestly don't want to improve. I have a buddy who was bronze and is now gold. I'm like 700 SR above him. He listens to the things I say but will still make misplays as well. Sometimes I just feel like climbing and I tell him that. He understands because he also wants to get better and climb. Their issue however is they might not understand that mindset. 

I would probably say to them "do you guys want to get better? Because I want to improve and win." If they say they want to get better make them get better when you're online with them. Coach them. The buddy who was bronze I taught him how to play a few heroes that he wanted to learn and it helped a lot. Honestly most of his issues now is game sense not mechanics or knowing how to play against enemies. 

They can say "it's just a game" and they're not wrong. But at least for me enjoying the game is playing to the best of my ability and winning. The tougher the opponent is when I win the better so going up ladder is even more fun. 
If you climb enough in solo queue you won't be able to play with them anyway. Easy excuse 
>Rein main but drops his shield a lot "so he can run faster"

No words.
If you like playing with them, or it's part of the fun social dynamic, this is perfect setup for getting another account. Keep your main for yourself, use the new account just to queue with them, and use it to play/practice heroes you are bad at, so you can maybe still get something out of playing with them.
You could tell them, "I feel like you're not being as serious about Competitive as I want to be.  I feel like you don't listen when I give you suggestions and just laugh them off, and those are the kind of things that could help us win a game.  It's depressing for me when I feel like we can't get better as a team and I can't achieve the rank I want to because we're playing at a lower level.  To succeed in Overwatch, you need to pay attention to at least the well-known tips and tricks.  If you do want to take on a more serious attitude, then I'd like to continue playing together.  If you'd rather keep things more casual, that's fine, but it might be better for us to group with people who fit our playstyles."

But if you don’t want to be rude, or you think they’ll never get better, you could just get a second account and say you need a “break” from competitive on your main account.
Scream at them something like "UNINSTALL YOU DIPSh#@!!!!!!1111!!!!!"

/s

On a serious note, I think you should try to talk about the reasons for playing together, to make sure you're on the same page. Trying to get a higher score on a leaderboard out of ego is not the same as trying to improve. If they just try to casually play because they want to chill with something, competitive is not really the place for that, they are probably better off playing the other modes.

If they "try to get better", they need to be aware of the fact that it has a cost. Many participants in the race for the higher position on the leaderboard pay many hours with their time and mental resources on improving themselves, so if your friends aren't willing to pay the same price, they shouldn't be surprised if they don't progress. In fact, the likely long-term result will be that they slowly sink to the very bottom.

Competitive is a mode that focuses on turning "tryhard" mode on, and everyone giving their best in order to secure a win. For Overwatch this also means that the teamplay dynamic is much more important in casual matches, as it can be expected(expected in theory, in reality you just get the Hanjoganjos on both sides :/) that the opponents maximize their teamplay potential. The only reasonable thing to do while grouping up with others is to give consistency to the teamplay, and if a team is only consistent in being bad together, there's not much reason for that team to exist.
You can't force them to improve. If they want to live in denial that's on them. Just point to the fact that you did it, so it's obviously possible.

Eventually you'll climb high enough that you can't que with them and it won't be a problem.
Playing with friends is great fun - and you can still play together in QP/Arcade. My recommendation would be to try to climb more than 1000SR above them. 

Remember that many people aren't too bothered about climbing in comp - which is fair enough - they just want to unwind and have fun. I know a bunch of people who take comp casually, and some who always play as hard as they can to win. I tend to not climb with the first group, but I still have fun, and that's ok for me. If I don't want to risk SR, I'll say that I don't feel like comp, and we'll do QP. Is that not an option for you?

Another suggestion I'd have would be to get a 'secret' smurf? Obviously that would need to be ranked up to level 25. You'd also get the advantage of a full MMR reset. Also if you are on PC, it will cost money, which some may not be an option for you. Console smurfs are free.

If you really want to keep playing with them, maybe suggest they try different heroes. Reinhardt has to be played in a specific way, and if this guy isn't getting it right, it's probably better to try someone else.

If all else fails, remember that trying to carry uncarryable games is good practise! (this kind of depends on which hero you're playing though)
The only way I escaped this problem was to solo queue 1,000 SR above them. Now when they want to play comp with me I'm like "ah, oh no... I guess we can't... see you later in the arcade brewskis" 
my friends and i have solo accounts and 2+ queue accounts. it is really good to keep the two separate so you can limit your raging to strangers and just have fun games with your bros.
"Hey man ive seen you play,  nice hair btw,  also you suck at ow and really need to improve.  Is that a new hoodie?  I like it" sandwiching works every tome
We need an "invisible mode" when logging into BNET. Sometimes you don't want your friends to see that you're online.
Just want to say thank you once again to OWU! The support has been overwhelming as always!

I'm going to have a bit of a sit down with them and just tell them how it is, and show them their stats to support what I'm saying. If they react how I anticipate they will react, then I will do what has been suggested most on this thread and make a smurf account. I've been considering doing it for a while so I think it would put my mind at ease a bit, and then I can just focus on having fun when we play comp together. Finally, if I can climb high enough on my smurf account, they might realise that they actually do suck and that my criticism is worth listening to.

Thank you again everyone!
Honestly, just like many other people here have said; don't play comp with them anymore. Some people don't have the right attitude for comp, and your friends sound like they're included in that. If you can't get them to take it seriously, there's no point playing comp with them. One of my friends (who was a higher rank than me) tried to carry me in comp once. It didn't work because even though they were much better than most the players, they didn't take anything seriously because it was funny 'how bad' everyone was and so they just fucked around the whole time. We lost nearly every single game. Attitude can be much more important than skill in comp. 

As someone who has climbed out of bronze (now gold!), the matchmaking system can definitely fuck you up. It sucks and it's hard and you're at the mercy of your team a lot more than at other ranks, but if you really are a better player you will eventually get out- it just takes a while. Since they've been playing with you in a 3 stack, and now a 5 stack, they probably should have climbed by now if they really were better. Climbing in lower ranks was always easier in a when grouped with friends, so if they're still stuck the fault is with them. It will be interesting to see where they place with the new placement system. 
Just climb without them until you're out of their sr range. You can still play qp together!
Just say it in objective facts as you see it, if they can't handle reality then maybe you shouldn't bother playing with them? You're crippling yourself by being too kind, if you have a goal to improve you should focus on what you want, not what they want.
Always suggest that you only want to play quickplay/arcade when you're playing with them, and play comp on your own until you're too high-ranked for the game to allow you to play with them.
If you can't tell your friends "Ya'll suck at this game.  I don't want you scrubs to tank my ratings" then you aren't good enough friends with them.
Some thoughts for you I have 3 pools of people I play with. 2 real life friends and my son. 1 group of friends, 2 in total, are mechanically bad and the sr they are at reflects their abilities, the other are similar to minute ,3 people, but either tilt easy or refuse to play to a fitting comp and lastly is my 16 year old son. 

For the group that tries but are stuck low gold I offer help in suggestions on how not to get caught out, combos, positioning etc. However if I sense frustration I back off I'm not trying to piss people off because they aren't at the point I am or maybe not capable of change yet. For that reason I made a second account because normally each season I find myself unable to group with them within a few weeks and they are my closest friends

The second group seems to never be able to take any form of suggestion out criticism. As it turns out often times for me I rather call it than potentially turn a game into a fight. They do stay close to my SR but the higher they go the angrier they get. Every loss is met with some sort of anger vs trying to analyze what went wrong or if maybe we just got out played. In this situation your better off moving on. 

My son started late last season eager to learn and wants to understand what went wrong or how to deal with that stubborn pharma. This is obviously the ideal situation I can offer advice and resources and this season his game is way better than last. I have been actually able to group with him on my main account and make quite the duo. 

I guess in the end all you can do is come at the situation in the most neutral fashion possible. Perhaps they will be open to change and leaving but if so know it will take time. If that isn't the case but these are still good friends you have to decide if your personal goals are more important than grouping with them in comp. Fortunately you can have your cake and eat it too with a second account
Competitive people often hate losing in any game or sport etc. i advise you try solo q or find other people to play with. Reddit has lfg subs and school clubs are an easy way to group with others. It's important to continually find people that you feel you are equal to in skill or just solo q obviously. It's usually a bad idea to play with players that are lower elo the best you can hope for is you boosting them.


However you don't have to spam ranked to get better, quickplay, deathmatch and custom games are great practice for mechanics. And at gold, a little mechanics goes a long way just, embrace the grind, and always look for way to improve. It seems like you don't enjoy playing with your friends and if you don't enjoy it there's just no point in playing. 
Easy. Tell them you wanna see how high you can go alone so you won't play comp with them 
Just do what I do..when they sign on I only want to play quick play..when they aren't on I play comp.
In my opinion, you don't tell your friends they suck.  You create an alt (if that's an option) and you play your main with them and climb on your alt.  Your friends don't want to hear they suck, clearly, and it may cost your friendship(s) to bring them to the realization.  If it means a lot to you, sure go for it, but if it's just a hobby - I think you should work around the issue.
Do you discuss your mistakes during the game? Just by making people to pay attention why exactly they died or lost tf you can help then to improve. We always do this with my duo partner by either "hey, come back, i can't help you there" or "damn, man, you've definetely overpushed". 

Also you can discuss your plans like "ok, let's go top left and make a pressure while tracer jump in from right and make a pressure". What I mean here is be a leader.
Just tell them that you don't want to play with them because you want to take it more seriously than they do lol wtf are the people in this thread going on about, suggesting you give excuses for not playing. If they're your friends, they'll understand
I'm diamond tell them I'd do a vod review for one or both of them. Like for the Rein shield example he's not wrong in the sense sometimes alright to momentarily drop your shield to give you a little extra speed as long as you are watching incoming damage and put it back up very often. Short bursts of shieldlessness to keep pace with your team, as it were. As long as you can block the burst your supports even get a little health back. 

Obviously it's enemy dependent probably don't want to do it against widowmaker, say. 

it also sounds like they're in that weird place where they don't like being bad (hence elo hell) but also maybe don't have the confidence to climb? I have friends that hate losing but don't want to do anything about it. In some sense, *that* is the game they're playing. 
I would let them know that I'm going to push for Plat/Diamond and that if I achieve that I will no longer be able to queue with them. 

If they want to and actually focus on getting better I'll gladly help them and continue to queue competitive with them.  

If not I'll only play arcade/quick play with them. 
Dude I was in the exact same situation for a while. I was always the best out of my friend group, but not by that much, and we'd queue up all the time. They were all mid silver, and I was low gold. 

Eventually we got bored of comp and just started playing qp and arcade as a group. I'd solo queue for comp, and eventually I made it up to platinum, while they dropped to bronze. So when they asked to play comp I just said that we literally couldn't.

We still play arcade all the time and it's a blast, but it is nice being able to queue with people my skill level now. 
I made a soloqueue only account and honestly its so nice to have that.
You have to decide which is more important--the activity or the company. It's not really possible to make someone get more serious about something if they're not.

It's probably not the answer you're looking for. But don't. Focus on yourself, play with your buddies and have fun. If you want to improve yourself, just play your game while you're with them, and mentally focus on something you want to practice if you're against weaker opponents.

For example.

This game I'm going to do my best to call out ultimate usage and try to "time" and figure out when my opponents will ult to the best of my ability. OR Something like, I'm going to do my best to flank, and apply pressure without directly killing opponents. Something like running behind them as Tracer and dealing a lot of damage to supports, and trying to bait them into chasing you.

There's very strange specific "drills" you can do and they can help you look at the game differently. Don't worry about shot-calling for your buddies unless they really ask for it, instead just do specific things and focus on getting better in every regard, eventually you'll be a lot better, and maybe if they really want to get better you can help them out.
"sorry to break it to ya, but u suck, until u get better i cant play with ya sry."
I think I should try to help them improve. Tell them to focus on improving their gameplay. Agree with them on Elo hell, but at the same time ask them to focus on you 5 as a group
 

Assign certain roles, play as a team. That's important.
I have a few friends like this but I still play with them because I love spending time and bullshitting and laughing with them more than I love fake video game points.
Make a smurf to play with them. You get practice and you don't have to worry about dropping sr. 
Tell em' this season you want to try solo queue for a while.
Just dont play comp with them. I mean, It's totally fine if they wanna play that way, not everyone wants to get better, but you shouldn't have to play alongside them in comp if they are playing for fun.
just say I prefer solo queing 
What I did with my friend is I told them that if I queue with him we are going to get bad teammates and I am used to getting good heals and will not be able to play well
Why not try and help them get better? If you have friends that play with you, you already have an advantage. The key to getting good at any game is improving and learning from your mistakes. Maybe take some time and watch your friends play in quickplay see what they are doing wrong and maybe give them some guidance. Being negative doesn't always help, but positivity and some encouragement could be beneficial. 
Not to be rude, but /r/relationshipadvice

Otherwise get a Smurf account to play with them. Use your worst or least used characters to learn a little about how the different characters play and to see what counters them.
This is the problem with a lot of friend-stacks. They just want to have fun. You shouldn't play competitive with your friends if you want to climb, simple as that. Stack teams need to have the same goals and be roughly the same skill level to work. Don't tell them they suck, just tell them you won't play competitive with them, because you guys have different goals in OW.
Just stop playing with them and climb solo, avoid when they ask you to play :\^). I stopped playing comp with 2 of my best friends since I was convinced they were holding me back. I  quickly climbed from bronze to gold that season, and now I'm in mid diamond. I'm too high to play with them now, which is a good excuse. I only do arcade for loot boxes with them now.  
Some people play just to have a good time with their friends. You got to respect that and play accordingly.  My friends were gold when they invited me to game. I started as silver and now got to top500. When we played competitive together,  we were losing and having a bad time with overwatch which was a frustration instead of fun. Now, I only let them play arcade games with me which makes us have a great time. If you really dont want to solo queue in comp,  you gotta find online friends for it, don't force it on real friends. 
Get a solo-q account that you play alone on and keep your old account to play with them 
Bronze is not ELO hell.  It is just hell.  Whenever i see bronze level play, it feels the player is 1. Playing with 1000 ping, 2. Playing with a potato computer, 3. Some sort of disability, or 4. A idgaf attitude that borders trolling.

I really hope your friends get the hint and either play more seriously or stop comp.

As a side note, it's been my experience that 5 stack queues are the worst and have heavy imbalanced matchmaking.


Honestly. With gaming you can learn a lot sometimes about yourself or other persons. Especially if you have to teamplay. I myself also work in a small company together with my brother. This can lead to.. Weird conversations if something is wrong. And i am all in for improving because i can be lazy AF at times.
So, if they are all casuall players.. Well, ok at least they have fun. But if they play regular and keep on blaming other things, then its a problem.
Tell it to them more like this maybe. Why should especially THEY be a victim of elo hell.. Maybe jeah you could be SLIGHTLY better but, im sorry you probably are not. Otherwise, hoe did you and everyone else climb up? Heh. Seems weird huh? And just saying you OBVIOUSLY are but also cant climb for a little is a wall infront of you. Bronze and gold has a big difference imo. And from gold to plat is an even bigger.
Look how they are, honestly. Some people cant hear that, its maybe just their own fault. Also offer them to be open about critique but also dont forget to say good job.
I play duoQ with someone i met throu open beta. And we always try to be as honest as possiblr to each other and we talk about the games how they went and what the big mistake was why we lost. But also what WE could have done better. Its super chill. 

And it does not have to show you "you suck". It just offers me something to improve.
Just make a clear statement. Imo. Guys, realize it. Surey noone goes pro but, we play since multiple season and you wont climb up. This, shows something and you have to improve if you WANT to climb. 
This is my exact situation but they're silver and I'm pushing diamond. Never gonna get there with these two though... I've been hoping they'd improve for 5 seasons now. I usually just play alone if I want to make a serious push unfortunately. 
You don't have to tell your friends that they suck to tell them that you'd prefer to play comp on your own. Like, if you're not having a good experience playing comp with them, just don't. Tell them you liked playing solo queue better. Tell them you don't think y'all jive well for comp. Or, just keep solo queueing and climb to the point where you can't queue together 😉

But seriously, if they're complaining that you're taking it "too seriously" because you're trying to improve, don't play comp with them. Tell them you _are_ taking it seriously and you want to play with people who take it just as seriously. They clearly don't want to admit that they have room to improve or expose themselves to the vulnerability of trying to do so. RL friends don't necessarily make good comp buddies, just like friends don't necessarily make good roommates.

Also, If you are queueing in a 5-stack that doesn't coordinate well together, you're going to be at a disadvantage because you'll get matched against other large stacks that may be quite well-coordinated. 
Go to the LoL teaching subreddits and ask them, they have been answering the same kind of questions for years

Personally in your position I'd just buy a smurf account and use that to play with your friends, play heroes you don't usually play and just have fun in general. Only use your main account to play solo queue or with other people.
Just choose to not play with them
You have to think about what's your intended outcome.

If you are looking for a polite way to decline grouping with them for competitive, just say competitive is a very stressful location for you, that you wish to have fun with them in QP and arcade instead.

That being off vastly different ranks is unfair to both them, you, and the 2 new guys, because it puts the team at an unbalanced footing. That the 3 of you are taking the game very seriously (what's wrong with admitting that?) and the atmosphere might be unhealthy for them to join in.

If you want them to get better, find opportune times to discuss after steamrolls. Avoid offering advice unless they ask for it, as it might come off as boasting. Maybe try to talk about what the enemy team did well instead, if your friends think they did no wrong.
These are great suggestion but I know some people just are impossible at taking critisism/ advice no matter the context.  If all else fails,  make a separate account that you use just for solo or just for playing with them and use you're current to solo.  
Good luck friend! 
I guess I just learned something. I thought there was a 500 SP maximum allowed to begin with. Hmmm. Also, I've seen it mentioned here already but I'll just pile on...just stick to QP with whoever you want. If they are friends IRL, they should understand. You can still have so much fun, less stress, etc... Everyone should understand that competitive ranking is just that = competitive. So you want to do every single thing possible to gain.
I feel ya on this one. I am in in a similar situation so I made an alt account that my buddies don't know the battle tag for. I told them I made it and told them why. No one got offended. 

When playing comp with my friends I was only ever able to get to low gold. On the alt account I solo queue with I'm ranked high platinum. Talking an 800 sr difference by simply not playing with my friends.

I still play comp with my buddies on my original account when one of them wants to. I still spend most my time on that original account for the other modes. But when I want to play serious and attempt to climb the ladder it's with my alt and not with real life friends. 
Scream "you're shit" through a toaster mic
Try not playing with them for a bit to confirm thier theory. 

What i do sometimes is I say.

"God i need to work on ____" 

Then they are like

"Yeah you do, i need to work on ___"

Or 

"Is there anything i need to workon?"

You could use your good friends (skill wise) to help spur this conversation and bring the focus to your bad friends.
Ive had a bit of a similar situation, where I'm in plat and the RL friends I play with are in bronze and silver. I don't think there's any need to make up reasons or anything, I just said we probably shouldn't play comp together because it would tank my rating and I'm trying to climb, but  we can (and do) play arcade and quickplay together all the time. I wasn't a dick about it or accusatory, just a statement of fact. If I had a friend in masters I wouldn't want to play comp with them in the first place but if I asked I would expect the same answer and have no issue with it. 

They're fine with that, no hurt feelings or anything. I can't play with the bronzes anymore anyway, but with the silvers I give them advice if they ask for it and play lots of quickplay with them where we basically just fuck around and I try to refine my mechanics or play new heroes. Basically they just don't take the game too seriously and that's fine too. I just play with them when I'm in the same mindset, and set off on my own when I'm feeling a bit more serious. 
It sounds to me like your friends REALLLLLLYYYYYY shouldn't be playing competitive with their mindset. It's not fair on everyone else to have to deal with people like that
Appear offline and ditch them
I'd get an alt account then you don't have to worry about your SR. eventually that sr will even out when you play with them and you'll probably be better than your opponents. 
This may not be best for you or your situation but it's an option 
Good enough point my bad for the rudeness. 
Just solo que until your SR is too high to play with them. It sounds like you're pretty much there. I've run into this with friends too and that's just the easiest way to do it without hurting their feelings. Another option is to make a smurf account that you only team que on and then only solo que on your main. 
I ditched them sore nerds grinded to master then quit to grind pubg ladder with them. And so the cycle repeats.
Tbh I feel you. Been in the same place. However in my case I just told him and he realized and took my advice. He is still in bronze I help him out a few times too. This season I am also stuck in silver. How do I know I don't belong there? I get 36 headshots on cree on average, headshots that count and I can play flex too but most importantly it's the fact that even after getting placed bronze 1050 Sr because that friend of mine played with me I managed to climb to plat barely that season. After that I played with him again and helped him improve, though it did cost me a lot of Sr (1k).
My online friends who reached diamond this season blame me because of this since now I can't party with them and will all the server issues, trolls, leavers and what not, I have honestly given up on climbing. I still play seriously but I don't play for the Sr anymore cuz I don't want to experience that grind. So I just helped my friend climb to silver and hope he can one day reach diamond and play with my friends in their pre-made in my place. 
They dont care or want to learn and improve. Theres nothing you can do, its up to them and so far its no. They're never going to get better unless they change.  You could try talking to them but from the sounds of it i doubt it would do much/anything. It is what it is. 

This is honestly one of the main reasons for nonranked modes. 

You have 3 options imo. 

1. You can quit playing OW/games with them entirely (seems excessive, unless they're just that unenjoyable to play with). 

2. Quit playing comp with them and stick to arcade (or qp if you can stand it). Or even try out customs. 

3. Make a new acc you play only with them on. Save your current for solo q/queing with your new ow buddies. 

Your guys mindsets are just totally different (and thats okay), just find middle ground. Goodluck. 
happend to me, RL friends cba to watch any youtube cause "lol just play, why watch any guidlines" and then they do stupid mistakes that could have been easily prevented. Or they dont care about patches and charge just to due to new changed reaper, screaming "WTF how did he healed himself"... ofc I take the game "too seriously, fuck you dont play professionaly so why are you an ass about it"     
well Im glad I solo Q now
> Rein main but drops his shield a lot "so he can run faster" 

You can lower shield jump. up shield. once touch ground. lower shield, jump and upshield. So you are faster and shield is up around 70%. Not recomended vs snipers.
> I've tried sending both of them links to good YouTube videos / streamers for their heroes, but they never watch them.

[Dunning-Kruger Effect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dunning%E2%80%93Kruger_effect)
So I've been in this situation before. And its really just VERY simple. If you want to play with them or vice versa, then just do quick match or deathmatch. There doesn't have to be emotions involved, its clear you want to try and they don't. They should respect that. If someone asks a girl out and she doesn't want to go, its simply "no thanks". You shouldn't feel bad or do something you don't want to. Just rank up with the two new players.
1. Buy a 2nd account

2. Use one account for soloQ
The fact so many of you care about your season rank over having fun with friends is really fucking sad.
[removed]
Tell them they fucking suck and correct their mistakes. Are they your friends or not?
Stop playing with them. 
[removed]
Stop focusing on your friends and focus on yourself because you must be making a hell of a lot of mistakes to be in gold. And I'm not trying to be rude or anything, that's just a fact. The lower mmr you are in, the more mistakes you are making.


Yeah, you're friends suck, but it seems like you care more about your friends skill than you do your own! Flip it around!
I think you suck, I managed to climb my silver ranked friends to diamond. I peaked as GM tho. 

Its super hard job to teach others and make them better players. Theres many things you need to care about and still carrying the game yourself. But thats the only way. 
If this is their attitude, which is perfectly fine, they should play quick play.
This is exactly how I feel! I will speak to them tonight and make them do things to get better. If they confront me about it, I'll simply ask why they are playing comp if they aren't trying to improve
This is the best and only smart thing to do
came here to say this. at the end of the day these are your friends and you don't want a video game getting in between your friendship. if you're that much better than them you can climb the latter without them. as a person that doesnt have friends that play OW on PC i'd rather be in bronze with friends than gold without. but that's just me.

I feel like shit for this, but every friend I play OW with is Bronze or low Silver. I played with them when I was around 1800-2000 and they always dragged me down. I solo queued to Plat and I was happy when I had an excuse to play without them. I love my friends to death but they never took my advice about playing and never even really tried to get better. :/ 

Although I do think it's better for them. This way they match up with people their own rank/mmr and don't get paired up with people a few hundred SR above them.
This. When I started ow(late season 4)  my friends been playing since release stuck were stuck in silver. Solo queued my self to diamond so comp is out of the question now. There's always mayhem!
And I thought the Reins who randomly charge when everyone is depending on their shield were bad.
Well he's not wrong. You don't just hold M2 all game as reinhardt. The key to playing rein effectively is knowing when to hold M2 and when to hold M1. This guy obviously doesn't, but it doesn't mean that dropping shield to re-position is 100% a bad call.
This is what i did. 10/10 would recommend again.
I got my best friend into OW when I already was like lvl 300 / high plat. Bought a new account to play with him. As he was open for every tip I had he learned really fast. As of now I can finally play on my main with him after only 2 months
I'd just not comp with them anymore. Ironically some of my best friends IRL are hard to play with in competitive games, so I just say I'm busy or with other people when they want to play stuff. 
>Also if you are on PC, it will cost money, which some may not be an option for you.

They could add a reset profile option to the account, that way people would be able to start fresh. There were no coming back from this and it would wipe everything, not sure if even then people would abuse it somehow. 
I was going to suggest this as well. Grab a cheap second account when Overwatch goes on sale in November.
This made me laugh, thank you!
I know that console is inferior in a lot of ways, but "appear offline" on PS4 is a godsend. 
People've been asking for it on Battle.net forums for, like, 10 years. Maybe longer.
Amen!
Yeah I do point out mistakes all the time, but I think because I'm "only" gold ranked, they don't take my criticisms seriously, or think I am just flat out wrong. Here's an example of one from last night:

Me: Rein you've just charged into the enemy team completely alone. You're really overextended and now you're fighting a 1v6.

Rein: Yeah but I was charging to get their Mercy.

Me: But you didn't get their Mercy, and you died, so now we have to fight a 5v6 with no tank.

Rein: No you won't I'll be back soon

We then proceed to wipe before he gets back
This is really helpful, thank you! I've got a really kind member of the OSU community who already reviews my VODs for me, but I don't feel like it's fair to ask him to review other people's VODs as well, cause I don't want to occupy too much of his time!

I've sat them down and told them they both need to get video capture software so people can actually look at the footage. Once I've got some games from them, is it okay if I PM you?

Thanks again for the kind offer!
The problem is, this is what I've been doing for the past 3 seasons with them. Basically just pretending I'm solo queueing with some shitty teammates, and saying the only gameplay I can improve is my own. But after several seasons of back to back games like that, it really starts to take its toll on me!
That's why I was hopeful about this new 5-stack. We've got a good team composition and fairly good communication for our MMR. They just don't seem bothered about improving their own individual gameplay.
I've tried this over and over as, like you said, I already have the advantage of a group with potential for fantastic communication. However, I think because I'm only Gold rated, they think I'm wrong (I think they just think I got carried to Gold), so they don't listen to any advice I offer them
I have friends in bronze and when I watch them play I just get the sense that their mechanics are nonexistent. There air heroes that they can't play because it requires aiming, so they stick to heroes that don't really require aiming for the most part. Tey don't really remember to use abilities when they should and they don't have much understanding of playing off of others as a team. I'm only in plat so I'm under no delusion that I'm particularly good either--I consider myself a pretty average player--but even compared to average the difference is striking. 

And that's fine as long as they aren't taking the game seriously. My bronze friends know they aren't very good, but they don't care a whole lot because they're having fun as is. If they started to develop unhealthy attitudes of blaming everyone else and becoming toxic that would be a problem, but as it is they're not hurting anyone. 
I believe it's 1,000 that's the limit
This all sounds all too familiar!
**Dunning–Kruger effect**

In the field of psychology, the Dunning–Kruger effect is a cognitive bias wherein persons of low ability suffer from illusory superiority, mistakenly assessing their cognitive ability as greater than it is. The cognitive bias of illusory superiority derives from the metacognitive inability of low-ability persons to recognize their own ineptitude.

Without the self-awareness of metacognition, low-ability people cannot objectively evaluate their actual competence or incompetence.

As described by social psychologists David Dunning and Justin Kruger, the cognitive bias of illusory superiority results from an internal illusion in people of low ability and from an external misperception in people of high ability; that is, "the miscalibration of the incompetent stems from an error about the self, whereas the miscalibration of the highly competent stems from an error about others." Hence, the corollary to the Dunning–Kruger effect indicates that persons of high ability tend to underestimate their relative competence and erroneously presume that tasks that are easy for them to perform also are easy for other people to perform.

***

^[ [^PM](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=kittens_from_space) ^| [^Exclude ^me](https://reddit.com/message/compose?to=WikiTextBot&message=Excludeme&subject=Excludeme) ^| [^Exclude ^from ^subreddit](https://np.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/about/banned) ^| [^FAQ ^/ ^Information](https://np.reddit.com/r/WikiTextBot/wiki/index) ^| [^Source](https://github.com/kittenswolf/WikiTextBot)   ^]
^Downvote ^to ^remove ^| ^v0.27
How is this even vaguely constructive at all? I'm obviously talking about their skill relative to the first 2 people.
Everything is relative!
How does this contribute to the conversation in any way? It seems like you've created a subthread here purely to brag about your rank and/or make OP (and other lower-ranked players) feel bad. It has nothing to do with the question asked.

I believe this is in violation of this sub's policies, which stipulate that you give "serious answers only" that pertain to the actual content of the question. Ridiculing the question-asked is explicitly stated as off-limits. This is an educational community. Take your one-upsmanship elsewhere.

Also, just so we're clear, your comment _is_ rude.
Not true at all; just because I haven't mentioned it in the post doesn't mean I'm not simultaneously working on my own gameplay. I am doing aim drills every day, and I have a kind member of the OSU community who reviews my competitive VODs on a daily basis and we work to improve on the areas I'm lacking
It's fine to play comp even if you don't really care to climb. Comp matches are often way better quality than QP, which is more fun to a lot of people. You don't necessarily need to want to climb and get better to enjoy comp. 

That said, with this kind of attitude they shouldn't be queueing with someone who does want to improve.
Their attitude is fine for comp as well. 
Tbh, he could probably just say that the matchmaking gets fucked up with them being so far apart now, which wouldn't be a total lie 
Can't agree, mostly because I do have friends who are really great people to hang out with, but are incredibly toxic and honestly bad when it comes to games, to the point where playing anything just isn't fun. 

I refuse to play almost anything with them, but in my case I got lucky because they mostly play LoL and CSGO, which I don't really enjoy and they don't play OW. 
Apparently charging in is the difference between a silver Rein and a bronze one.
My solution was to climb high enough the game won't even let us play competitive together... Oh well, we just have to QP!
They could, but there are tons of people willing to buy game from them for second or third time, so they will not. The only reason which stops them from doing the same on consoles is Xbox/Ps store ToS.
Didn't realise it would be going on sale in November! Thanks!
:)
Blizzard said that it would be coming soon... in 2012
"It's not your job to get the mercy.  Even if you got the mercy we probably would have lost the fight anyway."  Is the proper response.

Source: rein is my most played tank in Masters.

Suggest that he plays Winston or D.Va if he wants an aggressive tank.
Yeah definitely.
This is the problem, people think rank is important, it's not, it's based on so many factors, lots that can't even be controlled by a player (as in disconnects and trolls) the rank you are at is just an approximation of your skill. Way more can be achieved if you forget about your rank and focus on playing together. Regrouping when people die, having tanks that know how to tank and damage dealers that know how to protect their supports and tanks is much more important that skill rank.  Best way to practice that is scrims, get your team and find another team of "similar" skill and practice engagements and regrouping. Try and explain to your friends that team play > rank. I am a high master player and have been since season 2. I main support and my main job is to tell people when to regroup. Most people will listen but some people think they know better, those people will soon realise that staying in a group is more beneficial than going alone. 


I have a hard time understanding why there is such a striking difference.  I feel the gap between pros and plat is minimal when compared to the gap between bronze and plat.  I like to think a lot of them are just new players taking awhile to learn the game due to busy lives.  And then i see gold borders lol.
Comp matches are better quality because people take it seriously and want to climb. You shouldn't go to comp wanting the good matches without contributing to it with a good attitude.
Exactly this... It's okay to enjoy the game the way they want. They shouldn't however make it someone else's burden/issue or force their mindset upon others. You're allowed to tell them you prefer improving and playing with like minded folks. After all, you paid to play as well. If they're truly your friends, they won't take offense.. if you know they'll take it personally or guilt you.. they probably aren't the type of gaming friends you want in general (The game has enough negativity/toxicity without even trying). 
Yes, but then don't drag down a friend in a higher bracket
ok but then if they solo queue or queue with less than a 6-stack of people who don't give a shit, then people who are trying to improve and climb still might get stuck with these people???

they shouldn't play comp if they're not trying to play *competitively*, ie do their best and improve upon their best in order to compete.
The SR wasn't the point of comp nor were the golden guns.  The point of comp was for similar skilled and like minded people who wants to play with a competitive spirit.  Unfortunately, comp has very few such people.
It ruins the experience for other people. It's all well and good to say "comp games have better quality" but the reason for that is people are usually trying their hardest to win. When you have one guy on the team who's only playing comp to be in a better game but isn't actually putting the effort in, that ruins it. 

A guy the other day told me he plays comp so that other people will pick healer and let him DPS. Guess what? He was a shitty DPS player and we lost because we were a man down the whole game with this McCree trying stupid flanks, feeding and making his first instinct in any situation to throw his flashbang at either nothing or a Genji deflect.
NO IT IS FUCKING NOT.  IF WINNING IS NOT YOUR FIRST PRIORITY GET THE FUCK OUT OF COMP
There is a cost to playing with them.  I am gold, and when I play with my friends in silver and we lose, I lose a ton of SR.  I'm not a strong carry, merely competent at my level, so my presence in no way guarantees a win, and so playing with them is pretty much a guarantee that I go down.  The game wants our individual SRs to be close to our group SR in the end.
Oh no, don't worry, the spontaneous solo charges into enemy teams are still very much prevalent as well!
No, the difference is holding right click and W at the same time. Speaking from personal experience. 
Ever since they bugged charge I only use it when I'm guaranteed about to die or when my team needs me to break a choke.
Hmm, i see. I forgot there are people willing to spend money for that, it certainly won't change then.
I presume they will be doing a black friday / christmas sale. Blizzard tends to do that.
Just a note, but I would suggest keeping your main as your play with friends account, and using your potential new account as the solo queue tryhard account. it's a lot quicker to place fresh, than get placed low because it's what your mmr is "set" at and climb up from there. plus you dont have to explain the new account to your friends lol
It's because blizzard want to put an emphasis on the social aspect of their games.
JUST LET ME BE A HERMIT BLIZZARD
They followed up at one point and said it basically wouldn't happen.
To be honest I don't know why he even attempts to take out Mercys when we have 2 dps who do a good job of completely shutting down the enemy backline. The above scenario actually took place when he tried to charge the enemy team solo when they were running back from spawn (so far away from the rest of the team that it was never going to end well!)
I'm sure OP's friend still cares about winning games. But...

* Wanting to climb = wanting to win
* Wanting to win =/= wanting to climb

There's nothing wrong with wanting to play comp to enjoy quality games. SR is about playing your best against people of equal skill, not about climbing (unless your skill increases and SR reflects it). You might want to climb, but who are you to dictate how people *ought* to play?

If I wanted to get to GM, I would have to play several hours more per week than I currently am. I can kind of hover around diamond-masters at my current rate, but I really don't want to put in those hours to be honest. Does that mean I'm not allowed to play comp, since I'm happy hovering at my current SR for the sake of getting good, enjoyable games?
There's nothing wrong with going to comp and intending to win, but not specifically to climb. 

People treat climbing in comp like it's an XP bar, a grind, but it's not. It's a measure of skill. If you're not improving, you shouldn't climb. There's nothing wrong with playing to win, but not to improve, if that's how you want to play.
But what does it matter if they're playing in bronze with other bronze players? It's not like they're ruining anyone's games.
I think in this case, they'll just continually end up in the ranking where the game deems they belong. If they keep dragging other players down, they'll drop SR even farther until they reach a new equilibrium ...and likely more like minded players. After all.. you don't keep SR by losing games.
That's the thing, I pretty much exclusively play comp because the match quality is just far superior, I don't want the to completely get rid of golden guns, just make them possible to get in QuickPay aswell. I just hope they don't make it you get nothing for comp games because I don't wanna have to play quick play for golden guns. 
The thing is though if he is at the same rank as you and he is as trash as you say he should slowly go down in rank and you up in rank, not saying je is in the right because he was definitely in the wrong but we all get toxic games like that you just have to try to make the best of it.
I image some (many?) bronze players want to progress to silver (and beyond).
You can't just assume that everyone in bronze is there on purpose. I know people that got placed there last season and made it out to gold, because they wanted to. Don't just think that because someone isn't as good at the game as you expect them to be, that it's ok for you to not take the game seriously. They want to climb too, and the mindset of some players that go in there not wanting to climb is what makes what some people call elo hell. 
Unfortunately the matchmaker can be cruel sometimes, and it seems as though people duoing with their friends who are trying to boost them can fuck up the games for all involved.

But anyway, this guy was a solid 400 SR below me. I know lots of people have the attitude of "I'm not letting this diamond/plat/gold go dps we'll lose" but sometimes you have to try your best to enable them to do well. Honestly I remember in that game I had wone of my best performances on Zen ever and I was all for nought, just because we got a player that had no business being in competitive. It was a shame because the rest of our team was doing really well and we had a Genji that was doing his best to make up for the man down and carry.
True, but it's not like you can't climb if your teammates in a Bronze game are playing at a Bronze level.

If you want to climb you need to be the one giving your team a consistent advantage. Your 1200 SR teammates playing at a 1200 SR level is perfectly conducive to climbing.
I don't think that's what I meant. I placed bronze two seasons ago and made it to gold, myself. However they also said they were purposefully placing people lower. 

All I'm saying is that, for the most part, people are playing with the people they're playing with because they are roughly the same skill level. I just don't like hearing people get triggered because they don't think they're team is performing up to their standards, or that they are "stuck in ELO hell" when maybe that's just what skill level they belong in. 
Hence why I said we all have to deal with these games
Are you suggesting that the bronze tier, uniquely among tiers, requires less good attitudes from team members in order to climb?
Yeah I know, I get it, I just think these games would happen less if people who don't want to actually be competitive weren't incentivised to play comp for golden guns. Really no reason for them to be there. I had a guy playing widow earlier and it was obvious he wasn't actually trying. Asked him to swap and he told me to say pretty please so I just accepted the loss right then,
Nope, I wasn't trying to say anything specifically about Bronze. It applies equally to all levels. In fact, applying the same idea to a different rank might make my point more clear.

Say you're in a Masters game. You're trying to reach GM, but your teammates are all satisfied with maintaining their spot in Masters. They play to win, but not to improve. If you're trying to climb and improve and you play your role at a GM level you'll tend to climb even if your teammates don't play to your level.

I don't think being satisfied with your current level of play is a bad attitude or hurts your teammates. Your teammates playing at a 1200 (or 3700) level in a 1200 (or 3700) game is equally conducive to winning whether they've been at 1200/3700 for months or if they've recently climbed 500 SR.
At this point I feel like I need to start quoting what you replied originally to the parent comment because what you're writing here is some sort of unrelated tangent...

The original comment quoted the importance of bringing a good attitude to a game if you expect to benefit from it. Your reply asks what's the point if the tier was bronze? And I pointed out that bronze people want to climb just like the rest of us.

At this point you go off on some unrelated tangent about what it takes to climb, for an unspecified reasons, denying you meant to single out bronze -- what on earth is your intention?

What can have a greater impact on a game, a good Tracer or a good Sombra?
Sombra seems to be more self-reliant because of things like putting a translocator on a health pack and basically being able to heal anytime. Tracer seems to be able to do more damage in general and her pulse bomb is great for multi-kills. 
Overall, I think Sombra is a better team player because of the EMPs and hacking health packs, but Tracer just seems good for getting lots of kills.

What do you guys think? What hero would be better to solo queue in ranked with? Who have you had more success with?IMO in solo queue Tracer can carry harder, whereas Sombra requires more coordination to reach full potential. 
I can speak to Sombra's impact in gold through diamond rank. I did recently switch to main Tracer, but for now let's answer with why you'd choose Sombra vs. not choose her. Her role is just so different from other heroes, it has to be understood before comparing her to Tracer.

Simply put, if the things below are working in your favor, Sombra is a strong pick. If they aren't, Tracer is probably better.

**Sombra** is a dismantler. She requires more game sense than other heroes, because her job is to make every team fight advantageous for your team by knowing exactly when to do which of these things:

- Knowing the best ult/combo the enemy is likely to use and pre-emptively hacking one of those heroes (e.g. Mercy during a team wipe, Zarya before initiating, D.VA or Winston during a stall)
- Knowing when one enemy hero is respawning and running back -- and when and how to spawn camp them
- Having the right timing and positioning to EMP on the enemy *the instant before* they would have initiated a team fight
- Destroying Teleporter, Shield Generator, or Level 2/3 Turrets (and whether EMP is worth trading for them)
- Drawing enemies' attention away from a chokepoint onto you so your team can push in (e.g. stepping on the objective or firing from behind)
- -- Also knowing when to be in front of the enemy team or behind them (if they're all alive and holding the point, behind is better)
- How to safely stall the objective and give your team time to regroup
- When to charge ult with the "coward's loop" (translocator on health pack -> flank -> translocate) vs. when to stay with your team or on the point (e.g. join your team when EMP is up, anti-flank if your team is dying to dive, hack enemies instead of packs during overtime)
- When and where to take high ground (best way to hack Reinhardt)
- Which hacked healthpacks will affect the next team fight the most

If this sounds like too much to track, Sombra will be a challenge to play. Then again, playing her is the only way to get good at those things... :)

Team comp is the other huge factor. Sombra is a strong answer to these enemy heroes:

- D.VA
- Zenyatta
- Reinhardt
- Doomfist
- Tracer
- Symmetra's sentries and ultimates
- Torbjorn's ultimate
- Lucio's ultimate
- "stall" heroes
- a worse Sombra than you

But Sombra struggles against these enemy heroes:

- McCree
- Hanzo
- Pharah
- Winston (*if* he uses his bubble and gun to block your hacks)
- a better Sombra than you

She combos well with these allied heroes' ultimates:

- Reinhardt
- D.VA
- Zarya
- Soldier: 76
- McCree

The more of these you see on your side or the enemy's side, the stronger or weaker Sombra is.

Finally, Sombra relies on your team being able to turn an advantageous fight into a win. Sometimes your team just can't win even 5v4's or capitalize on big ults. If that's your team, Tracer is a sharper instrument to use.

Hopefully with more practice I can write up something similar for Tracer to truly compare impact.
If you are socially skilled and inclined to be in voice chat, Sombra. If you want to be a lone wolf who gives no fucks but does great things for the team, Tracer.

Tracer doesn't require almost any communication. Sombra doesn't *require* communication, but communication makes Sombra much better. Of course, if you try to main Sombra in ranked and with voice chat, you should expect to be given shit every other game or so, because you are playing with unintelligent gremlins who can go shove various objects in their various holes.
Sombra will carry on 2CP. Tracer will carry on KOTH. Sombra and Tracer can both carry on payload maps.

Both require good tracking. Sombra is definitely more self sufficient. Teacer can duel better too obviously.
Disclaimer: I'm not a pro

I'd argue that it depends on your comp, both of the heroes combo ults in different ways. 
I would say that if your team has some high dps characters then sombra creating openings for them would be very beneficial. However if your team seems low on dps then sombra probably won't make up for that so tracer would be more beneficial. If your team doesn't work together then sombra will be rough unless you're really good, since you'll have to hope that your team will use your ult and you'll basically have to have that game sense for them. Tracer is more solo friendly, and a good tracer can carry, but both characters can be extremely detrimental to your team if you aren't good.
Hopefully this was helpful and not a bunch of stuff you've already heard before
Tracer. If you can oneclip the main healer before a fight and oneclip the main dps at the start of a fight the fight should be over.
Tracer, a big part of sombra's kit is her health packs. Without coordination, people don't use them and you have less effect. 
As someone said, in SoloQ, tracer can be a pubstomper, if you can a godlike tracking, and you know when to go in and when not to (i.e knowing that another hero is being dived, when ana doesn't have grenade, soldier heal, mccree flashbang, etc.., you can also bait those, but it's way easier without those).

You can choose your style, and with this I mean go to their backline, or just kill whatever is in front, which works most of the time, for example, if they have a monkey, you can always ask for a discord on him and always focus him, so your healers get's an easy way out. Or you can just mix those.

You need to be really fast with tracer, your reflexes and flicks must be really good in order to blink and re-aim again, specially against lockdowns like sleepdarts, hooks, flashbangs, etc.
Sombra is really strong against compositions that are tank heavy, and flanker weak.  tracer is strong in general.
Sombra absolutely can have more impact in Masters and above, she doesnt have any real hard counters and EMP is, now that rez has been removed as an ult, is one of if not the strongest Ult in the game with how many ways you can follow up on it. Tracer shines in less coordinated teams as she is more lone wolf and her ult perfectly encompasses her hit and run playstyle. 
What's a good way to play Tracer in solo queue?
Because a lot of teammates tend to ignore comms (or aren't even in voice) I've found spamming Z three or four times and then EMPing tends to get the team's attention. 
Flank before the fight begins and wait until your team starts to engage before you start attacking. Other than that it's mostly knowing which target to focus
Often it can be better to start attacking before the fight begins because you can split their team up and allow your team to mow through their frontline 
That really depends. Your team will just as often continue sitting in the choke, you get chased down 1v4 or whatever and get picked and your team continues to afk at choke waiting for your to spawn.

Bonus points for 'please switch soldier'.
I mean if that happens you aren't winning the game no matter what so you might as well practice staying alive behind enemy lines.

New to pc gaming. What button is easiest for push to talk?
So I've only been playing pc for about 2 months now and I'm not 100% used to playing on a keyboard yet. I've gotten a lot better than when I started but I still haven't gotten the hang of doing extra stuff such as crouch spamming, pressing x for healing, and most importantly using push to talk. 

Right now I have push to talk bound to Caps lock and I find that I'm not able to consistently hold caps and do basic functions such as strafe and shoot. My finger always lifts off caps if I'm calling for help and my team gets a broken message that gives no useful information. I haven't ventured into competitive yet because I want to be able to communicate effectively first.

I've considered binding it to a mouse button but I feel like that would be detrimental to aim which I don't want to mess with. I also don't want to use open mic since people in my house are always coming and going and I don't want that to get picked up on mic. 

Is there an easier way to communicate with the team for someone like me who hasn't mastered the keyboard yet?I have mine bound on a side button on my mouse. If yours doesn't have those, consider upgrading (mine's 10 years old). On the other side button I have quick melee. It's great.
Instead of using push to talk, consider using open mic and binding "toggle mic mute" instead, so you don't have to hold the key. 
CAPSLOCK
It's a bit unorthodox, but I use a USB foot pedal. Frees up my fingers so I don't have to worry about push to talk while I'm aiming or moving.
I use left alt, I find it very easy as it's basically the same as pressing space
Grave ~ is what I use
F works well for me
I like left shift
There's no right answer other than whatever feels most comfortable for you. Some common trends are a side mouse button or capslock. If your finger slips try using open mic and bind mute mic to caps. That way you press caps once, speak, and then press it again to mute yourself.
Caps or 'v' are the most comfy for me.
I use push to mute 
I like having it on my mouse. I used to use caps lock but I hate having to choose between using my shift ability or talking to my team. Lost me a lot of 1v1s. 

My mouse has two side buttons, so I assigned them push to talk and crouch. Then I put melee on the scroll wheel. Now I can do all of these while moving and activating abilities. Really helpful. 
I find alt is easy to press, and you can still use spacebar at the same time
I bind it to capslock, i only really disliked how V was melee by default, so i put that on a side button of my mouse.
I have F as mine and I only use chat in down moments 
Shift. Mouse buttons are bad and will fuck up your aim. Use shift and put the shift abilities on something else. Alt works for most of them.
I use left ctrl. But I have my abilities bound to the side of my mouse, melee to E, and reload to R.
I have mouse buttons and put all my ability buttons on there and changed my left Shift to push to talk
I play with open mic then just bind mouse button for mute, works pretty well for me having it on mute until you need to talk.
I've heard that mouse buttons are great. (not sure though, I use a WMO which doesn't have side buttons.)
I personally use V
I've always used mouse4 since it dosent mess with strafing or aim but it's also a good button for your ult so it's whatever you want it to be
I use push to toggle mute and it's bound to my mouse. Absolute game changer.
I use ''V'' it is close to WASD, for melee attack i use ''F''.
f for healing, x for push to talk
I've been using Tab, but I might have to switch it as I've accidentally hit Q earlier today.
Mouse4.
I use V
You move WASD to the right. Now you have 2 buttons for your pinky. If you had a numpad, now it doesn't get in the way of the mousepad.

I have moved WASD to TFGH and I have Y and X for voice and crouching.
I would say something for your pinky. Like shift etc.. IF you can handle that move. I always have him somewhere there.. No problem for me with keybibdings.

OR a mousebutten.. I have one for vouce and one for punshing. But remember this.. I think it is way better to have your mouse just for one/two things.. You have to aim. If you clinch your hand too much because you have to aim, shoot and sometimes toggle voice it can somewhat fuck up your aim. 
I like to have it on open mic and I just keep the ` key to mute the mic for when I don't want to talk.  Headphones are helpful for eliminating background noise, and for just getting more info if they're a good set.
Ditto this; you don't need a fancy mouse, nowadays many standard mouses have one or two on the side and thats all you need
This doesn't mess with your aim at all? I currently have melee and a spray bound to the two side mouse buttons but I could change the spray and bind it to push to talk but I don't want to do it if it messes with my aim. 
same, but i seriously think about using a foot pedal
That's the same I have, it works really well.  Thumb on the button for push-to-talk, move it forward a half-inch to slap somebody.
You are a god
This is what I do. Side button on the mouse is handiest for me.
Where is this setting?
Yesss this is what I've been doing since I started playing comp. Drove my flatmate nuts until I found a decent keybind though, since I'd accidentally tap it and leave my mic open for like half a minute haha.

(I currently have it on 4, which is 3 with WASD.)
Just be considerate of your teammates. If you are in a noisy environment, this isn't the best idea. 
I just switched off caps lock to my mouse button because my pinky kept on getting confused between pressing caps and shift.
Brilliant.
I use left alt as well.  The only time it's annoying is when I'm mercy and trying to float and call for team to come to the edge so i can fly back up.  Otherwise it's a perfect button
I used that too but I kept pressing esc.
I use f as well. I've been a pc games for many years and f has always been my goto for Mic. I've played around with others but this feel the best. Getting used to it might take a little bit if you have a tendency to fat finger as you may hit e
> I currently have melee and a spray bound to the two side mouse buttons

I see you have your priorities straight.

The button I use on the side of my mouse is almost where my thumb would be anyway, so it doesn't really mess up my general aim to have it pressed at times. That said, I wouldn't switch between pressing it and not pressing it *in the middle of a Widow shot*.
If my aim is going to be screwed for a second while I'm disengaging, which is usually when I talk, I'm fine with it. Try it and find out for sure if it messes with aim.
Overwatch is great in that it has an amazing feature: A mute button. What this allows is for you to mute yourself at the press and release of a button, and to unmute yourself at the press and release of a button. As smart as it is to have your spray bound to your mouse for maximum memeology, you can communicate a lot more through words rather than pictographs.

tl:dr Use push-to-mute instead of push-to-talk, and bind it to one of your mouse buttons.
Why didn't I think of this before! Binding voice line and spray to those would be a massive improvement. Just imagine the possibilities!
You don't have to keep it open any more than if you had push-to-talk. You just toggle it instead of holding the button.
I'm pretty sure you can press right click to float with Mercy, but then again I haven't played in a while and I barely play Mercy.
Alright thanks no harm in trying it out I guess I'll give it a shot
Sometimes you need to talk mid combat, like calling damage or focuses. 
But how am I supposed to bm the other team if my spray game isn't at it's full potential 
Oh I see. I misunderstood what you meant. Thanks!
right click is dmg boost?
I actually keep my abilities on those. Way easier to keep moving and use them that way. I may move talk to shift instead....
Bind something like F, G, or whatever your current PTT button is for the spray wheel. Flick after pressing said button for spray. Problem solved. Or, just classically crouch spam. Even gives a bit of tactical advantage 
I understand the dilemma you're facing, my voice line button is bound to mouse3. Need to be able to spam "How embarassing" multiple times in the middle of a fight.

And my voice mute/unmute button is bound to G.
Oh yea it is
Right click is Pharah jetpack though

Does anyone else feel like they did something with aim after the latest patch?
Feels really off, like mouse acceleration is turned on ingame or something. Has anyone else encountered this issue? It's really throwing me off. Yeah... I'm finding I'm actually having to pay attention while playing Junkrat...

Which completely destroys the reason I became a junkrat main in the firstplace.
Not aim *per se*, but something has definitely changed for the worse with this update. The game performs noticeably poorer, and framerates typically in the high 40s have dropped to the low 30s. I had to reduce my resolution several notches just to return to normalcy.
A friend of mine was experiencing the same with pharah after a patch.
Yup. I can't hit with McCree/Widow anymore, at least not with the same consistency I did just a week or two ago.
Huh, my aim with McCree went to complete shit. I figured I was having a bad week but this would also make sense. 
Yes!!! I thought I was just lagging but it feels like something took a shit on my sensitivity when I haven't changed a single thing...
3300 hitscan main here, can confirm it feels off.

Lowered my sens then went back to my old one and it feels fine, cant tell if it was placebo in the first place or I just got used to it.


Maybe I just got used to it cause one of my friends (Finished #80 last season) said it felt fast as fuck, like mouse acceleration was on too. 

Whenever I go in game and do 180s, it feels inconsistent tbh, like I go farther sometimes and other times I dont go as far.
I haven't noticed anything myself but a friend has been having issues playing Genji because aiming doesn't feel right. 
Though my aim has been worse but I just thought it was cause I changed my sensitivity and dpi.
RemindMe! 5 days
My aim has been a bit off recently but i just assumed that was me having bad games and that I need to take a break. This is interesting though if the patch is the problem, I'll test this out myself tomorrow and see how my aim feels. Im also experiencing something weird with me not getting a hitbox sound but apparently I hit the enemy. Throws me off a bit 

edit: so my Mccree has definitely been really off for a while now. My widow is better but inconsistent. If this really is a problem with the patch then it's weird, not surprised though if it's just me having a bad week
My cm/360 still the exact same, but i'm getting more noregs to the point i don't even want to play hitscan
Definitely. playing widow after the patch something definitely felt off, almost like there was input lag when doing scoped in flick shots. Really hard to put my finger on it since it's very subtle. I've since gotten used to it so my accuracy is back to where it should be, but something is off for sure.
My aim has felt way worse than usual.. thought maybe I was just being dumb but guess not
Something like this happens to certain people after every patchh
TF2 syndrome
AMD Gpu? The latest drivers are known to hurt performance in Overwatch
Bruh... get yourself a video card. Even a low end card should get you 60 fps.
I've had pharah issues too. I feel like I fire at someone, and on my screen i can see it hit the target. But no hit is registered in game 
not like you need to aim much with pharah
I will be messaging you on [**2017-09-09 02:29:56 UTC**](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=2017-09-09 02:29:56 UTC To Local Time) to remind you of [**this link.**](https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/6xtiz0/does_anyone_else_feel_like_they_did_something/dmj6o9w)

[**CLICK THIS LINK**](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Reminder&message=[https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/6xtiz0/does_anyone_else_feel_like_they_did_something/dmj6o9w]%0A%0ARemindMe!  5 days) to send a PM to also be reminded and to reduce spam.

^(Parent commenter can ) [^(delete this message to hide from others.)](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Delete Comment&message=Delete! dmj6omz)

_____

|[^(FAQs)](http://np.reddit.com/r/RemindMeBot/comments/24duzp/remindmebot_info/)|[^(Custom)](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Reminder&message=[LINK INSIDE SQUARE BRACKETS else default to FAQs]%0A%0ANOTE: Don't forget to add the time options after the command.%0A%0ARemindMe!)|[^(Your Reminders)](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=List Of Reminders&message=MyReminders!)|[^(Feedback)](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBotWrangler&subject=Feedback)|[^(Code)](https://github.com/SIlver--/remindmebot-reddit)|[^(Browser Extensions)](https://np.reddit.com/r/RemindMeBot/comments/4kldad/remindmebot_extensions/)
|-|-|-|-|-|-|
Wait really? Because this would explain a lot…I've been having performance issues and crashes ever since my drivers updated 
Comments like these aren't helpful. If I could, I would have already. Can't I just play the damn game and have fun?
I feel like when you hit a rocket direct hit it's not making any sound, but haven't experienced what you're saying.
What 😂
Yeah, all drivers past 17.7.2 seem to be having these issues.
Made the game unplayable for me
Thanks for pointing this out. I'm rolling back tonight.
Ohhhhh shit. Thats probly my issue

Healer main looking for players to group with
Hello, I'm looking for people to group up with. I ended at high bronze last season and topped off at hight silver. I play healer mostly, some rein and dva and if I get tired of that reaper. My most played hero is Lucio and plan to play the hell out of mercy. Keep in mind am 15 yrs old incase that's a problem. I'm looking for people who can work together nicely and don't get triggered.
My user name is Ryboltt#1588
I'm available around 4 PM PST and some days I work.
Thanks!4 PM PDT happens when this comment is 7 minutes old.

You can find the live countdown here: https://countle.com/321448309

---

I'm a bot, if you want to send feedback, please comment below or send a PM.
R/overwatchlfg
You should go to /r/OverwatchLFT
I think this is right, except idk why it says pdt
/r/OverwatchLFG. For future reference, subreddit links only work with a lower case 'R' on desktop.
 
 __________________________________ 
 **^^Capital ^^Corrector ^^Bot ^^v1.0** ^^| ^^[Information](https://www.reddit.com/user/Capital_R_and_U_Bot/comments/6fmx4n/information/) ^^| ^^[Contact](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=whydidntyoudomyjob) ^^| [^^Song ^^of ^^the ^^day](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vbB43z6Q_0Y) ^^| [^^How ^^to ^^remove](https://www.reddit.com/user/Capital_R_and_U_Bot/comments/6jaw32/how_to_remove/)
Seconding. This is how I found my group
PDT is correct because it is currently daylight savings 

Lucio in silver, tips?
Hey everyone, 

So I placed mid silver this season which was no shocker for me considering how little I play the game. I really want season 6 to be the season I commit to pushing for gold and I would love to do that on Lucio. 

My games feel really good when I play him and I want to make my teams feel confident in my play. So herein lies my big question: as a silver player should I get into the habit of speed boosting while my amp is on cooldown? Does this help or hinder teammates who may not have the most solid aim? 

Aside from this I am interested in which times are not good to choose Lucio ie. maps, game type etc. 

I am a Dva/Mercy/Orisa player so Lucio is a bit different. Any tips are welcome. Fellow Silver Lucio Main. I had a 71% win rate on Lucio last season and Lucio was my second most played hero. I managed to climb 750sr playing mostly Zarya and Lucio. Lucio can be run nearly all the time. He's great on Control Maps and on Attack. You can do without a Lucio on Defence. Don't use amp on cooldown. Speed amp is useful for getting out of spawn and more importantly for disengaging (example D.va ult). The most frequent use of amp would be to save it for a mid fight healing boost. On a side note, other skills that would make you a better lucio would be wallriding (improves stall by a lot) and peeling (protecting teammates esp if it's your other healer),
When on KOTH maps i exclusively play lucio so this is kinda koth specific advice but it helped me climb from low gold>high plat very quickly so it should help in silver too

When in spawn or even as you leaving spawn in comms just say 'Im gonna speed boost left/center/right ect',this way your team knows where your going and they should all follow rather than all spreading out when  they get to the forks in maps.Basically you want to direct the paths your team takes,for instance on Lijang tower gardens as lucio i always lead my team8s through the inner path and never the bridge at the start of a round because i dont know if the enemy have a phrah,its a small thing but minimizes the chance of losing the first fight before its even started if people get concussion blasted crossing the bridge.

Samething applies when attacking points that have cliff edges around the point like on lijang market if the enemy team has a lucio or phrah and they are holding the point im gonna lead my team through mid to retake,going round the side will often end up in someone getting booped  or hooked off the map so often im looking to just help my team avoid making stupid/bad plays

Also play peel and use BOOPs to save teammates,if someone gets isolated speed boost over to them and boop away the enemy,this is extremly important especially to save a second support like zen/ana.

Also im a big fan of teammates who play reaper on koth,as hes is strong on the gamemode and he has great synergy with lucio,speed boosting him about can massively improve his effectiveness as he benefits from speed boost during actual fighting way more than anyone else,dont necessarily pocket him but look for opportunity to help him be aggressive and get picks especially near chokes.


For amping i generally amp speed to engage a fight for taking the point and amp heals mid fight as needed.You can pump out way more healing than you may think as lucio,should easily out heal an ana/mercy in my experience as long as your near your team at all times

If the enemy has a genji you always want to hold sound barrier untill he dragonblades as it basically nullifies his ult.

Another thing i have noticed is that a lot of lucio players dont shot their primary as much as they could,lucio has excellent dps one 1 left click of headshots can deal 160hp damage,which is pretty insane,dont be afraid to spam even if your not massively confident in your aim



With the current version of Lucio sitting on speed is a lot less viable since it usually is only aiding one or two people. Every time you are on speed there should be a purpose for it (trying to avoid an ult, get back into a fight, get your aura in range of a friendly, etc). In my opinion the biggest difference playing in bronze-gold is that you can not rely on your DPS to kill things. This is where the idea that you can't carry as support comes from. It doesn't matter how much healing you put out, if they don't engage and get kills you're doing nothing. So to carry as Lucio in low ranks you have to use his utility. Mainly I mean abusing his survivability. Most DPS at your level have terrible aim. Just dance around the point and make yourself very hard to kill. If your team dies but you are able to stall until the your teammates return to the fight you are getting a massive amount of value for your team. This may not make a big impact when it comes to stats but if you do this every team fight (on payload for example) the enemy team will never make any progress and you will easily win when it's you're turn to play offense. 
Personally I generally use Lucio more as a healbot than most, but I've had a lot of success with it. I'll speed until the fight starts and my team takes damage, but then j generally sit on heals for most of the fight, using speed as needed to navigate and get in position to heal teammates.

IMO this mindset could be even more important in silver where time to kill is increased. If your team is grouped up Lucio does heal an absurd amount.
No harm in practicing your rollouts. Getting places fast early on certain maps can lead to easy kills that can turn the tides of a first encounter
Great advice. That's something I definitely need to learn to control myself with - the amp that I constantly feel compelled to use! I will remember to hold onto it for those important moments. 

Wall riding is another technique I'm a bit unskilled at but I will practice it. Thanks a lot for the tips!
Very thorough advice, I really appreciate it. Those are the things I guess I've never considered: where are my teammates likely to get knocked off the map themselves and where can I take them to prevent that. Really solid. 

With the Reaper heavy meta I'm seeing I'll try my best to help him get in there! Thanks again for your advice. 
That's actually a very good point. Team fights last so long that the extra healing would definitely be an asset. Good perspective! Thank you. 
Turn on backwards wall ride in Lucio settings, also this is a great video for wall riding https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YH0ePK5ia50. I also use 2 bindings for jumping on lucio. I saw DSPstanky use RMB for jumping, I tried it and it's been working well for me (took time getting used to). I use both space and rmb (lucio only) for jump, remapped boop to middle mouse. Jumping using a mouse button gives more spammability and better reaction times imo.
That's actually something I'm really interested in trying! Currently my middle mouse button is mapped to melee but I use V anyway so I think this is a great solution. Thanks again for the tips and the video!

How to maximize speed in Lucio wallriding?
I'm curious as to how people do these Lucio rollouts in seconds. What are the key components to gaining that much speed?When you jump off a wall, there is a bit of a speed boost. People just jump onto a wall, immediately jump off and repeat this on other walls to increase their speed further.
The less you're in contact with a wall before you jump off of it, the less your initial speed is brought down to its "normal" level. So, first, you should wall-skim as much as possible when trying to gain speed.  
And bunny hop if you need to use the ground for a transition, for the same reason.

You should also try to use corner and pillars and jump multiple times when using those.  
You'll use the multiple surfaces of the wall/object and gain as much speed.

So basically spam the jump button once you're gaining speed and possibly rebind it to something that makes said spamming easier: either the scroll-wheel or the right mouse button (Stanky-style).  
And keep space for actual wall-ride, maybe.

Check /r/LucioMains /r/LucioRollouts for better advice.
I tried to switch space and RMB for jumping and booping for two days once. My brain felt like hurting from the constant brainfck this gave me. 

I can see the reason behind the switch, has anyone tipps for a smooth transition? Change every Heroes jump?!
I also couldn't wrap my head around DSPStanky's configuration.

I personally kept space for jump.  
And I use the scroll wheel for wall-skimming and bunny-hopping. You just need to build a habit for how much you need to scroll to get an adequate result. I've found it easier to learn.
I´ll give it a try! R.I.P. scrollwheel...

What are some good videos or players I can watch to improve my Soldier 76 game?
Been enjoying the character so far, and I do pretty well in qp but I want to be able to do more than that for competitive. Any help? I would try Jake. I think he's http://twitch.tv/jake_overwatch
twitch.tv/dantezegveld

he deserves more viewers, he usually also responds to chat if you have questuons etc (50 viewers). he streams almost daily.

Want to switch from wrist to arm aiming? Playing Mercy has helped me a bunch
I (relatively) recently got a lot more play space and was having a hard time transitioning from wrist aiming to arm aiming. I needed to make the switch for the sake of my wrist but couldn't seem to stop myself falling into my wrist aiming during hectic play.

What I've found is that playing mercy forces me to use my arm to change direction quickly rather than obsess about crosshair precision - I figure that can come later after I've fixed my bad habits, and playing a crosshair-forgiving character like Mercy has made a huge difference in how I'm moving my arm.

I chanced across this after picking mercy back up in time for the changes to go live and I wish someone had suggested this to me sooner, so I guess that's all this post is.The way I transitioned from wrist to arm aim is to just go into the training range and practised hitting the moving bots while watching some videos on the side (2nd monitor, laptop, phone or television, your choice!).

I started at a high sensitivity so that it wouldn't be too awkward (12000 or something), then just slowly brought it down as my arm got used to it (about every 5-10 minutes). After the first day (30 minutes), I ended up at 8000. After the second day, I ended up at 4000, and after that it was just refining the sensitivity until it felt comfortable now that I was used to arm aim (ended up at 3200).

There's no pressure to actually do well, and you get to build the muscle memory to move your arm that far without issue. I did this for about 30 minutes a day for 2 days, and never went back to wrist aim - since I had built the muscle memory to aim with my arm, and my sensitivity at that point was too low to aim with wrist - meaning that I can't even panic and switch to my comfortable aiming style at that stage, since it'll do worse than arm aim.

Remember it's about building muscle memory, not doing well. As long as you're hitting in the vague direction of where the bot is, you're doing fine.
I developed tendinitis in my wrist and switching the arm aiming has been a bitch. I keep defaulting to wrist aiming despite the pain. I ended up having to wear a brace to keep myself from doing it. 
Nice try Genji!
Honestly, you're better off practicing against bots.
Honestly I started out 8 years ago aiming with my wrist. After I picked up gaming on overwatch I wanted to aim with my arm. The best advice I can give is to drop your sensitivity to something insane so you can do nothing but use your arm. I started at somewhere between 7k-10k edpi. Then I dropped my sens to 2k edpi. Now after playing at 2k for a year I am now playing comfortably at 3.5k edpi.
I have a similar experience, just have Netflix up as I play. Went from 15/2650 dpi to 5.75/400 dpi 
You should avoid using a normal mouse when you're not playing. It can alleviate the pain quite a lot. I switched to a trackball a long time ago with no regret.

When to hold up close on Nepal: Sanctum?
I never seem to know what the best conditions are to defend at that choke point with the mega health pack on Sanctum.  I know how strong it is for defenders because I've been at the receiving end of it, but it usually results in me (tank) getting push in and cornered. Typically, I like pushing to catch the stragglers of a won team fight. Then if the people who died first arrive just after, they die too and a cycle of trickling can really be punishing on sanctum. If they all actually fall back and regroup, then it's team comp dependant. With junkrat for example, holding that choke can be easy.
I guess for defense, it really depends on the composition you're running, but primarily I prefer not to hold up close. For that point I found more success in letting the enemy team try and get to point while sitting on the point/a bit far back up the stairs. They're far too focused on getting the objective most of the time which makes it easier for your DPS to pick people off or for your team to just surround them. But this is just how I like to do it, so take this with a grain of salt.
I'll keep that in mind next time I play Nepal, thanks.

How do I know I'm actually improving?
I'm a gold tier playing with around 2150SR. I want to get better and have been actively working on it. I rage much less, stay calm and think about what I could do better, as well as my team.

However, how do I actually know I'm improving? Sometimes it seems I play super bad and other times I make MLG plays. Is it because I actually outplayed the enemies? Is it because the enemies were just bad? Is it because my team actually was decent?

How do I know I'm actually improving?The best way to tell is to record your own gameplay. Actively watch and compare your games regularly, and you should quickly figure out if/how you're improving and what areas need more attention
Consistency. 
If you're practicing a specific skill, e.g. aim, you know you're improving when the metric on that skill (e.g., accuracy - but in headshot-only practice, not games) improves. 

Just generally, you know you're improving if your rank increases and you're in solo queue. Also, record and rewatch your gameplay with a very critical eye to notice all your mistakes. You should be able to notice and write down a hundred little mistakes in a ten-minute match. Then make exercises to correct those mistakes.
Honestly, i don't know. When i first placed in competitive, i was at 2400. 8 months later, on my second account i placed at 2200. I had to of gotten better but the stats weren't showing it. I would say watch your own gameplay. Stats aren't always the best place to base your progress around. 
You get a higher rank and you actually maintain it, never falling out of it while constantly playing throughout the season. This shows consistency. Related, if you don't feel like you're getting better or dominate one game and feed the next, almost like a 50/50 chance, you probably are in the skill level you CURRENTLY belong in. 
Start logging into masteroverwatch or overbuff regularly. You'll be able to see how all your stats change over time. 
Analyzing your own play and learning what makes a play good vs. bad will also help you develop as a player. It's kind of a catch-22 where to know whether you are playing well or not you have to be a good player already. The way to break out of this is to spend some time thinking critically about your own play after the fact so you can develop your understanding of OW. Or get a more experienced player to review your play for you.

Also, try to evaluate yourself somewhat independently of the outcome of a fight. Sometimes you will make a mistake but it's hard to spot because your team will carry for you; other times you will do the right thing but still lose. So don't focus too much on whether you win or lose a fight/round/game.

And to answer your question more directly: if you are actually improving, you will rank up. It won't happen overnight, but if you are getting better you should be winning more than 50% of your games.
Which seems impossible when you play a support.
Trust me, it's not. I don't claim to be a support main, but I do play as fill, meaning I've played a fair share of support myself, and I know plenty of support mains who are good enough to play on a consistent level, never dropping out of their rank. For example, never in 5 seasons have I fell out of diamond, ever, playing as support, DPS, tank, whatever. So I'm pretty confident im at a diamond level right now, maybe I could be better if I didn't have much work to do. My main point being you can climb and consistently maintain your rank if you are good enough with anything.

This stat change doesn't add up for me
I had 8 matches (placement) of McCree. 3-4-1.

I just did 2 matches (non-placement) and went 1-1.

Overbuff says my On Fire for McCree is 23.6%, down by 17.46% over one day.

My On Fire for these two matches where I went 1-1 was 6.1%.

How do I go from 41.06% (23.6% + 17.46%) on fire for 8 games... to 23.6% on fire for 10 games when the additional two games averaged 6.1% on fire.

41.06% for 8 games plus 6.1% for 2 games.... equals 23.6% for 10?

These two games were actually two of the shorter ones I've played.

I know where the numbers came from... 41.06% + 6.1% divided by 2 equals 23.6%.... but that's not how any of this should work. That 41.06 was after 8 games, that 6.1 was for 2 games.Overbuff has always had math problems. So be patient :)
why even care lol

Nano hog + take a breather = invulnerable?
If hog takes 50% less damage from nanoboost and then takes a breather for another 50% leas damage, does it stack to give him 100% damage mitigation, aka being invincible?There is a cap on damage resistance to prevent this, although I can't remember the exact amount and I'm having trouble tracking down the patchnotes for the patch that implemented it.

Edit: found it! The cap is 50%, was 70% for a time. https://us.battle.net/forums/en/overwatch/topic/20753626069
I believe they capped it at 50% during the whole Bastion fiasco
They capped the amount of damage reduction a character can have at any given time. I think the cap is 50%, but I'm not sure.
IIRC it'll be a total of 75% damage reduction if Breather and Nano stack together. It's multiplicative, not additive. 0.5 x 0.5 is 0.25 damage taken. 
More like biotic grenade plus take a breather=invincible. I think DVa's ult is the highest burst damage in the game at 1000 damage. He survives that without grenade so it's not like additional damage resist matters.

The additional healing from grenade would just make him survive even more sustained damage lol.
Omnic crisis monkaS
no much easier, cap at 70%

Dealing with Bastions?
(Gold player BTW, not the best around here)

I've been thinking to myself about the Dva changes, then I realized Bastion can now pile damage through without worry.

How it is now when I'm Dva against Bastions, is I DM in their face and my team follows up or the Bastion goes Recon and tries to run away.

With Dva's DM change coming up, I'm concerned I cant just sit there for 2 seconds and watch the Bastion walk away. I'm not good with Genji (or smart enough to bait him to shoot me while deflecting) so I'm kinda at a loss here. Do people have ideas on how to challenge the big old B?I personally find tracer good because her ult can kill him instantly and you can blink around with her and slowly take him out.


I also found junkrat to be great against bastions. He can get 3 mines and do a double jump then use a concussion mine and shoot. Also true to stand right left to bastion as junkrat cause even if he kills you your passive will end up finishing him off.
Bastion is weak to snipers (widow, hanzo), flankers (tracer, genji, sombra, pharah) and high damage from unexpected angles. High charge zarya with bubble works well too. You need EMP to take out an Orisa Bastion Combo.
Personally i get in a nice hidden angle with junkrat. Launch mines over something you can hide behind and that way you can blow through any defensive shields as well. Cant kill u if he cant see you. U can also sneak up with mei and freeze him as you dance around!
I main zenyatta and I like going against bastions in turret mode. Discord him, hope he doesn't run away, charge your shots and release them all on him
Actually honestly dva is still a good answer. You can DM and easily hit him with the entire micro missile barrage at the same time. You won't solo kill him but it won't take any more coordination than before to deal with him. At the very least you will uproot him and someone (or yourself) can chase him in recon as he frantically tries to recover. Haven't tested with the new nerfed missile damage though so maybe it won't be enough to move him with his damage reduction and armor. 
I also like this. 
I also like this. 

How to improve and be of use in a comp
I played through my placements and went 6-4, placing at 1800~ sr, but for the past day or so when i play I've been losing and am now around 1600. In each game I've been trying to play dps which is one of my better roles, but since its silver there's already 4 other instant dps i opt to go for whatever is missing. On average unless i am healing ill have atleast a gold in damage, elims, or objective kills. Any advice on specific heroes or styles i should try?
TL;DR - I'm stuck in low tier overwatch since I'm a low tier player, how do I improve and climb out of said tier.Are you playing solo q or group? Having a team that can consistently work together helps SO much, plus you can learn from them and get advice. 

Record your play and go back and watch the clips. This is super helpful if you can notice what you do that works and what doesn't. If you have friends that are high ranking, you can also share those with them and ask for advice. I know some people share here on Reddit as well, if that's an option you're open to. 

Give yourself a break from Comp and play some quickplay, really focusing on a character you want to master. Set up AI custom games or go to Training and practice aiming if that's a problem for you - there are lots of ideas for different things you can do on YouTube. Some people also find it helpful to do custom games so they can memorize the maps, or at least where health packs are or where interesting spots for certain characters will be. 

The best thing honestly is to be mindful when you play. Don't just veg out or focus on killing. Think about plays, predicting movement, and counters. You're already here asking for advice, so you're on the right track! 
I have friends I can play with, but they only play 2-3 games a day so often times I play soloque in hopes I get a team that isn't toxic and communicates. Even staying as a team from time to time. So advice on how to lead a soloque group would help a lot if you can


Hanzo Vod Review Request Low Plat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HgG4EgwAJ-g

This game was a placement and a win, mostly positional mistakes and shaky dragon usage. Also my aim was hit and miss at times. Regardless, please let me know tips I could use to get better.

On this account I ended at high gold but my main is low, mid plat so I could expect this one to be around there but lower.
Also, what I say at the beginning may offend gold and below players. I didn't expect myself to record this so sorry in advance.A few quick things from watching it don't remember everything but some easily noticed things

You ran ahead of the tanks and became Frontline hanzo a few times. That will absolutely get you killed at higher levels.  You're a mid range sniper not a tank

You need to work on target prioritizing. You went and 1v1d a dva with mercy heals and shot into defense matrix too often. Hanzos value is in high burst damage and 1 shot squishys. Shooting trash damage into tanks will get nothing accomplished. Other than that just general awareness of which 1v1s to take. You fought a reaper and got 1 shot in but with his life steal you'd need more than 2 body shots which is difficult in a 1v1. 

Save your scatter sometimes. If you use it just to grab anybody you see you gotta wait a long cooldown before you use it again. Sometimes it's better to hold it and use to to help healers or people in danger. If you shoot it you're a lot less dangerous to them knowing you don't have an instant death ability. They'll dive you or just take the 1v1 as soon as you waste scatter. There's value in them thinking you have it up. 

Last thing isn't video specific but a general thing for Hanzo. You need to know when he's viable and when not to play. There's no shame in switching. In the video you even complained about being the only real DPS and Hanzo isn't great on that or KOTH
i'll use timecodes and will add some general mistakes in the end.

- 1.20 - you know enemy aren't coming from bridge and go infront of your team, not even checking if anyone follows you. If enemy were pushing together (like proper dive should be played) you would be dead in a sec.

- 2-30 - the fight is already won but whole team is chasing 1 hp d.va. Your tunnel vision doesn't allow you to see there is no help and you try to 1v1 winston. Ofc that doesn't really matter, in the end your team will get him too but you just gave a bit of ult charge to him for free

- 7:45 - same as in the very first fight of the match. You don't pay attention to where your team goes and you don't run away instantly after you notice 4 enemys (including 2 tanks) are watching at you

- 8-30 - you don't pay attention to pharah or any other 200 hp heroes and just keep spamming d.va (and she's not even watching at in your direction, you can't get a 240hp hs. Tbh don't even know how you team didn't get fucked in that fight.

- in general you have poor positioning in teamfights. Even after yor team get's the point you still stay at the frontline most of the time. The probability of dying as hanzo in intense team fights is already high enough, no reason to increase it and die earlier than you could. And try to save your scatter for a moment when you find yourself in the middle of a chaotic fight.
- target prioritization. On 2nd point you played the best hero (in your team) to deal with pharah. You and junk mostly ignored her in all teamfights and if her were played by someone who's not half-blind - that would be a huge problem.
- taking highground always leads to advantage or any dps, especially against pharah. On 2nd point you had to be on balcony or on outside mega or at least behind your tanks.
- the only mobility skill for hanzo is wallclimb, use it's full potential in duels and teamfights for better survivability and scatters 
- This is more about point1 - play more aggressive. After the wallclimb buff you can get some insta pick (with or without scatter) before fight even starts and if you miss - you still be able to get behind your team in time.
Stop playing hanzo.
Explaining my thought process at the timestamps mentioned

1:20 I knew were the team was relative to my position so I knew I was fine. Although you're right though, I should have at least let Roadhog be infront of me. However, lower rank Tanks dont make pushes SO I'm kinda used to just doing my own thing even thoughI know it will get punished at higher ranks.

2:30 The team was going to kill DVa anyway, let me start working on the frozen Winston who was basically a free target 

7:45 On Li Jiang I purposefully split up on this part because they normally go to that upper stair part and then I flank them. I was not Expecting to get rekt as hard as that.

8:30 Actually, that's just me aiming shit so I thoought fuck it, lets shoot DVa

Pharah - Unless I'm Hitscan, Pharah is Priority #5 or #6 on the enemy team. If you get the healers out of the way. now it's 4v6. Kill the other non Pharah DPS next; 3V6. We had a J.Rat, Kill what ever he's fighting and it's 2v6.  Now you will definitely have at least 3 people fighting Pharah if all goes according to plan so If I can't shoot her, at least my team mates can properly focus on her.

Shooting Pharah as Hanzo is not easy, (not hard, but Definitely not easy) 2 missed shots on pharah as hanzo while she is splash damage or directing me is GGWP to the Pharah. Therefore, why would I waste time potentially missing shots when I could be hitting easier shots?

I'm not disputing your advice, but the way you worded it sounds like I'm stupid, to be blunt. I know this wasn't your intention, but that's the vibe I felt reading back. 
Thanks, helpful (:
don't listen to meta slaves and play whatever you enjoy to. I'll do a review tomorrow
oh wait it's console. Tbh i don't know what's the difference in hanzo playstyle between console and pc but will try anyway

Sombra Tips?
Hey guys I'm in Diamond and I want to learn to use Sombra competitivly. What team compositions does she work best with? Most games I'm in and I pick sombra I'm instantly met with "sombra is throwing" or "even worse than an attack torb" (but that's mostly just toxicity)

Also is there any GM/500 YouTubers or streamers that I can watch and learn things off of as Sombra? Thanks in advance guys! check out [this series of guides on yt](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DG1322tmEts&list=PL5iC1bfwJMnC2igu9gkDoZLmsuFX4E1QD) by top 500 player fitzyhere, it covers the basics very well and there's some more advanced stuff in there too.  
Check out codeyniku too on yt.

Diamond Sombra here as well. Just mute people who tilt at the sombra pick. You can definitely play sombra as a fragger if you know you match ups well. In her effective range, she can one clip all 200 HP heroes if you have good tracking. She can do serious damage to tanks as well since tanks typically have a bigger head hitbox. 

Once you do enough poke to get EMP, determine how you want to use it. It's worth solo EMPing zen, zarya and sym. Even at diamond people know getting one pick means to go all in. If you can't secure a kill with a solo EMP, look at the positioning of your team mates. You can drop EMP and do some damage and hopefully one of your teammates can finish them off. 

Also, now with deathmatch, try to practice dueling with sombra there. Your goal is to kill people with one clip before having to translocate. 
She works best in 2-2-2 imo, ppl don't coordinate enough to truly utilize her as support. Hack healthpacks constantly. I play her in basically a methodical approach of hack healthpack. Translocater down. Go invisible and get in back lines. Try to pick off a support and take damage then heal myself with healthpack. Communication is key too to set up emps and tell who is hacked or what healthpack is available 
The "problem" with sombra isn't sombra herself.

At high ranks I dare to say she is OP.

The "problem" is getting your team to coordinate with your ult to take full advantage of it.  I'm finding if I'm not in a full 4-6 stack on full coms, most sombra ults fizzle and it's NOT the fault of the sombra most of the time.

So unless you are stacking or have excellent coms in randoms (which is almost never), sombra is great potential just left on the table.
Codey is ma fave
I love Fitzy 'cause he's just so chill

Why do I suck with Genji? Pt. 2: VODs
In reference to [this thread] (https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/6xktvv/why_do_i_suck_with_genji/).  

As many of you requested, I made VODs. They are from QP, because I didn't feel like losing a bunch of SR trying to make videos of me OTP'ing in comp.  

I have one win and one loss. Neither were "stomps." In the win, I felt useless and like my team would've 5v6'ed anyway. In the loss, I felt useless. Anyway, here you are:  

1. [The win] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dBjIJ50xGlM)  
2. [The loss] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8eRGn_WeKUM)  

I went out of my way to fill them with on-screen details about what I was thinking at the times that I made decisions, so you can tell when I was just thinking the wrong way. I'm looking for examples where I'm **fundamentally thinking wrong**, not "doing it better." Eg, if I had the right idea to kill Ana but I just missed a lot, ignore it. But if I should've ignored Ana and gone after Roadhog instead, tell me!!  

Thanks guys!Your pathing is inefficient. You spent more time trying to flank and/or looking for healthpacks. Case in example, you keep using the far right entrance to flank but it's faster to reach there simply just by walking straight then turning right. You had low health at one point. Instead of going to the large healthpack and the bottom of the stairs, you elected to forgo that and go for the one behind the reception desk, which means that more time is spent trying to heal yourself.
I'm super nitpicky so this is going to be really long, but here goes:

*Game 1 - Dorado*

0:00 - You're in QP and your team is with you, but I'd just like to say that in a comp game when both sides are organized and your team sets up around the choke, the position you start in is meant solely for surprise attacks on people coming up (Pharah, Genji, Hanzo, etc.). I like to crouch in the corner so I can still see my team and hear when somebody comes up, then dash to my team if I fail to get the kill. 

0:18.5 - At exactly this time, you can see Ana's attention is completely focused on someone behind her. She runs away from her Lucio and the cart to sleep and grenade him. At 0:20 would have been the perfect time to drop down and fan her, using a dash to either secure the kill or retreat. That's also a really awkward angle to shoot from, so it's completely normal to miss most shots. 

0:39 - Excellent mindset. Half hp Soldier is incredibly easy to burst through his biotic field, although it seems you panicked or hesitated a bit after the dash; be fearless!

1:31 - Here you should have dashed towards the stairs where your team was. You would have been healed and deflect damage or ult, potentially saving your two teammates and Mercy's ult. 

1:51 - *Very* minor but since Junkrat was coming out of a fight after you teamwiped them and didn't know you were there you could have taken your time to line up a fan instead of primary firing. 

2:27 - Small issue with movement: you jump into LOS of their entire team. Also, deflect is best utilized against an enemy Genji to reflect his fan in close quarters after one of you dashes. 

2:55 - Definitely should have payed attention to the Soldier. There's a fair chance he can kill your teammate (who you could see was low earlier) and then you, but not if both of you gang up on him. Shooting Winston when he's retreating to his team doesn't help save Doomfist and only serves to charge your and their healers' ults. 

2:19 - You might not have realized it but since you had armor you were still above full hp after the burst. Also you seem to always deflect Soldier before you dash. This is exploitable so experiment with instantly dashing whenever you see him, using deflect for his inevitable rockets instead. 

4:04 - Genji had no idea you were there. You also had ult and knew there were three people on the high ground seconds ago. 

4:12 - Oof

4:54 - Would have been better to deflect Ana instead since Helix rockets and Soldier's bullets are a guaranteed deflect but her grenade isn't. She could also just heal the Soldier once you started damaging him. 

6:08 - Oof^2

***

**Game 2 - Lijiang Tower**

0:45 - There isn't much you could have done here since McCree's threw his flashbang at the exact range to allow his its radius to hit through your deflect, but as a general tip you should always jump and flail the second you see a McCree in anything less than mid range. 

0:58 - Would've been better imo to rmb > dash > rmb > deflect since if he was full hp he would have killed you. Good keikaku nonetheless

1:22 - Very important mistake in crosshair placement. As a Genji at the start of the fight you're looking to take out their backline. Even if you're trying to kill Widow you should always come out of cover looking at their backline to see if there's anyone that could crossfire you. Had you been looking at where McCree was at the start you may have been able to get a few shuriken off. Also, since he was at the very back and able to shoot you no matter who you went for, he became the most important target right then. 

1:48 - Staying too forward after using deflect with a McCree coming towards you. 

2:02 - Since the Zarya buff you never want to deflect anymore. 
2:04 - Yeah, should've waited it out
2:05 - Should've dashed into the right side of the doorway to end up closer to McCree. 50/50 on the decision to push him without cooldowns. 

2:44 - The logic behind dashing into the air before ulting is that it gives you a wide view of the enemy team. By dashing straight up you lose this view and instead rely on sound to find the Zarya. 

4:14 - Priority: McCree on the right. 

5:18 - I like to go out the choke to deflect for the team, especially since you don't have a tank; But if you do flank, make sure to follow through ;)

5:28 - Didn't turn around fast enough. 

6:16 - Should've either chased with the Reaper or waited to engage until he was in position to capitalize on your distraction. 

6:24 - Lapse in situational awareness 

6:31 - The rest of your team was regrouping. 1 v everyone. 

GG

***

It's hard to get a grasp of your gamesense in regards to ult economy and usage and positioning in QP, but your mechanics are decent and for the most part you're playing around the areas you should be. Biggest thing to work on I'd say is your rmb > dash > rmb combo and aiming dash at people's feet so you don't have to take risky lmb shots into dash. Polishing that will open you up for much more aggressive plays and deflect opportunities. Also try to look around more and get a sense of where enemies are before you dive in. You seem to be a tad bit impulsive and go for whoever you get wind of instead of having a definite target in mind. You're flanking at opportune times though. 

Definitely be more calculated with your blades. You should always have a sequence queued up with what you're going to do (for example, against a traditional deathball on Hanamura 2nd point, from the catwalk: Aim for the staircase > dash into the air > dash into Ana > slash > jump > slash > deflect hog hook > dash Soldier > slash > improvise) and all of this should be decided before you press Q. Of course there's factors outside of your control that may break the sequence, so usually you either have to make multiple short sequences subconsciously accounting for them or improvise and go for what you can get. The better and more experienced you get, the more and longer accurate sequences you'll be able to make. TL;DR Have a plan before you blade and account for CC that will ruin it. 

P.S. The text was insightful and hilarious. 

Good luck in comp!
I'm not going to dive into anything too specific, but I watched both your VODs here and I can point out general facts about your gameplay.

Your mindset with Genji is far too skewed in favor of solo play, causing yourself to be detrimental to your team's success as a whole. A common misconception about Genji is that he should be flanking 24/7 because that's what his toolkit is designed for: mobility that allows him to flank *and* escape. However, what is most important to know that he is an **opportunist**, not a source of reliable DPS. You need find opportunities to get key kills to contribute to your team. Doing so requires constant vigilance of the flow of battle between your team and theirs.

Let's take a quick look at your team comps, in both your winning and losing game. This is incredibly important. You might've thought it wasn't necessary to record your team comp at spawn. You weren't checking your team composition during your games at all, and even if you did (i might've missed this), you were not acting according to your team, again, favoring your solo-Genji style of play. One thing that I noticed was the lack of a tank, which allows Genji to do his job **much** easier than without. When tanks go out there as a frontline, they function as a pocket of safe space for you to maneuver around since the opposing team tends to pay attention to Big Hulking Targets who are wreaking havoc upon them. Since the opposition's attention is divided, it is **your job** to take advantage of the chaos and space that tanks provide for you to effectively pick out targets.

Without tanks to divide attention and invade enemy territory, usually you end up with the games you posted here. Unless your dps is killing enough to actually provide value to your team (which is unlikely, by the way), it will be difficult for you to notice any impact on the game as a whole with you as Genji. This is where you should consider switching, but this is a Genji critique.

**You need a gameplan.** You can't just go in there as Genji and hope for the best. This is evident by your ult usage. You dash in the air before using your ult-- while that is a very good technique to use, you rely on the split second view upon coming down before looking for your targets. This wastes invaluable time when you could have surveyed the scene briefly **before** you do that. **Always have a target or two that you actually want to kill with your ultimate. Don't rush in there blind.** At this point, the rank you're given with your playtime as Genji is solely due to personal skill, not game sense.

Another thing. Other evidence that exemplifies your instinct-not-planned-based gameplay is your desire to flank. At every single given opportunity. Every time you flank, think of this: Will my team be able to survive without me there? Remember, every time you're moving to get into a flanking position (especially when you're taking extreme routes), you're reducing your team's chance at being able to survive an engagement by enabling a distinct numbers disadvantage to occur; the engagement *will* be a 5v6 *unless* you are there to help your team.

I advise you to take a step back from your personal skill and think about the game in terms of positioning and timing, in accordance to whether your team (and the opposition) is making an aggressive or defensive move. To help facilitate this style of thinking, *move with the flow of your team*. 

Or in other words, think like this:

"What is my team doing that will allow me to do what I can best?"

Here's some resources that will jump start your understanding of this:

( Manipulating 'Space' )
 https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/67nuj4/for_science_space_and_positioning/


( An Actually Advanced Genji Guide based more on how to take advantage of opportunities ) 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=196Q3YFtJtU


Tagging the following people, who all suggested or requested I make a VOD in the original thread: u/RazzPitazz, u/wawasbootcamp, u/shuganips, u/destroyermaker, u/WeeZoo87
One thing to keep in mind is that even though every genji guide or video will tell you "flank and kill healers" doesn't mean that you should always be doing that. Near the end of the first map during your loss you focus the mercy very hard while she's in the air after she used Rez. Start trying to recognize when it's a smart time to go for a healer. On dorado at the very start you try to hit their Ana from above and miss nearly every shot. Almost no ones mechanics are good enough to land shots in that situation. Shooting Winston or another easy target would've been a better option here because you gain more ult charge and are unlikely to get a pick on either target. Try staying with your team more at the beginning of fights unless you have your ult or are very confident in your mechanics. When you see a low health enemy dash in and then take advantage of the chaos the pick creates. 

Sorry for the wall of words
What did you use to put the on screen text in? I might do something similar.
I actually do know that the other way is faster. Think it's just a bad habit or something.  

The time you are referring to, I was worried about the widow sniping me as I ran to the bottom of the stairs.  

Can you give some other examples that this is a systemic issue, or is it that particular location in Liajang?
(1/2)  

For the first video:  

> 0:39 - Excellent mindset. Half hp Soldier is incredibly easy to burst through his biotic field, although it seems you panicked or hesitated a bit after the dash; be fearless!

I got disoriented and thought he was to my left. How do I fix this? I get disoriented as Genji very very often. 200 hours on him has not improved my orientation issues, especially with ult. Lots of the time I ult when I see 3 people, dash in, and suddenly it's like everyone is invisible... Is it because I'm not double-jumping enough maybe and getting a birds-eye-view of the situation?  

> 1:31 - Here you should have dashed towards the stairs where your team was. You would have been healed and deflect damage or ult, potentially saving your two teammates and Mercy's ult.  

I actually didn't know where my team was. Maybe I should spend more time figuring out where my team is for my retreat options. I thought they were still behind me where I last saw them.  

Should I have ulted at 1:40? AT the time, I didn't even consider it, but looking back I feel like I should have. Why/why not?  

> 1:51 - Very minor but since Junkrat was coming out of a fight after you teamwiped them and didn't know you were there you could have taken your time to line up a fan instead of primary firing.  

I tend to be very afraid of RMB's JR's, since they can insta-gib you if they see you. Let's pretend my LMB aim weren't shit, would you still suggest the same? Should I have just lined up an RMB and immediately done the RMB+Dash+RMB combo, followed by a deflect if it didn't kill?  

> 2:27 - Small issue with movement: you jump into LOS of their entire team. Also, deflect is best utilized against an enemy Genji to reflect his fan in close quarters after one of you dashes.  

So what is the proper duel opener in GvG? RMB -> Dash -> RMB -> Deflect?  

> 2:55 - Definitely should have payed attention to the Soldier. There's a fair chance he can kill your teammate (who you could see was low earlier) and then you, but not if both of you gang up on him. Shooting Winston when he's retreating to his team doesn't help save Doomfist and only serves to charge your and their healers' ults.  

I thought charging my ult was a very high priority. Is it lower than actually trying to save my teammates? The main reason I didn't pursue Soldier (although I wanted to) was that I didn't know where he was. I knew he was left, but whether he was on the payload or within the left building I wasn't certain. Is that a situational awareness problem, or should I have just committed to the Soldier hunt instead of the Winston?  

> 2:19 - You might not have realized it but since you had armor you were still above full hp after the burst. Also you seem to always deflect Soldier before you dash. This is exploitable so experiment with instantly dashing whenever you see him, using deflect for his inevitable rockets instead.  

I didn't realize it at the time. I also didn't realize that he actually *ran from me* at the same time (probably because he already whiffed his rockets, I dove into his healing station, and he saw I still had >full HP). I actually spent the entire time waiting out CD's expecting Soldier to still be there like a jackass.  

So here's my beef with Soldiers. Right now, I put up deflect instantly and then I run away with dash if they don't rocket or if they healing station. If they do rocket or I deal meaningful damage to them during deflect, I commit and dive them.  

Here are my fears with your proposition (dash first, deflect second):  

1. If I dash in and pop deflect and the soldier just drops healing station and doesn't fire a rocket, he is now full HP in a healing station and I am 100% out of CDs. This feels like a lost fight.  
2. If I do not dash in but instead attempt some LMB dueling for a bit with him, this seems like a fight that just isn't in my favor -- he's hitscan and I am not. Furthermore, if he drops healing station, the fight swings even more against me and it seems like I should definitely run. Finally, if he mid-air rockets me (a risky play) I might just get gibbed before I use any CDs.  

How do I reconcile those facts? In Genji v Soldier dueling, how am I supposed to escape if I save Deflect for after a dash?  

> 4:04 - Genji had no idea you were there. You also had ult and knew there were three people on the high ground seconds ago.  

What should I have done? Should I have chased Genji? I wouldn't have caught up to him unless I dashed, and dashing in that direction seems risky (and he could just dash away). Should I have gone up and ulted on the people I saw on highground? I knew people were up there, but one was Winston and I didn't really want to ult into a Winston being right there. Should I have?  

This wasn't a conscious decision (not to ult the Winston). I tend to somehow, subconsciously, have a general idea of where Winston might be and I try to avoid that whole area of the map. I knew Winston was outside (maybe I even heard him drop down), so I didn't want to go anywhere near there. Is that a mistake? Should I be less afraid of Winstons?  
(2/2)  

For the second video:   

> 0:45 - There isn't much you could have done here since McCree's threw his flashbang at the exact range to allow his its radius to hit through your deflect, but as a general tip you should always jump and flail the second you see a McCree in anything less than mid range.  

Proper response to McCree, then, is to jump around LMBing to duel? Or Jump around while retreating? Or do I combo and deflect behind him? Is it range-dependent?  

> 0:58 - Would've been better imo to rmb > dash > rmb > deflect since if he was full hp he would have killed you. Good keikaku nonetheless  

If he was full HP, I'd still have the advantage after the deflect right? Or couldn't I have just dashed away from him if he didn't flashbang? If I RMB dash -> RMB deflect and he just waits out the flashbang, how do I escape? Am I playing too scared?  

> 1:22 - Very important mistake in crosshair placement. As a Genji at the start of the fight you're looking to take out their backline. Even if you're trying to kill Widow you should always come out of cover looking at their backline to see if there's anyone that could crossfire you. Had you been looking at where McCree was at the start you may have been able to get a few shuriken off. Also, since he was at the very back and able to shoot you no matter who you went for, he became the most important target right then.  

Hmm good point. I think I was positioning my crosshairs such that I'd have the most view possible of what's below.  

With a McCree seeing me like that, should I have dove him then or should I have retreated and waiting for my team to push in and then gone after him? Pushing him solo without my team present seems like it'd just get the Widow to turn around on me.  

> 2:05 - Should've dashed into the right side of the doorway to end up closer to McCree.   

I've done alot of GvM dueling since then, and I think the correct solution to this now is to just dash-at-feet immediately upon deflecting a flashbang, and then combo'ing him while he's still stunned. Don't even need to turn 180 as long as you dash right in front of his feet.  

> 2:44 - The logic behind dashing into the air before ulting is that it gives you a wide view of the enemy team. By dashing straight up you lose this view and instead rely on sound to find the Zarya.  

I also sorta knew/suspected that Zarya was only one on point. Perhaps I should've dashed through her -> ulted -> dashed again. Or just not ulted. A lot of the time, I'm only really ulting because I'm just walking around going "Hmm I've had ult for 5 minutes now!!!" and I don't want my team to go "Genji did you EVER blade even once?"  

Did you see any really good Dblade opportunities in this Liajang video?  

> 4:14 - Priority: McCree on the right.  

Is it because he saw me? Or is McCree generally a very high priority? I tend to prioritize a post-ult DF just because he is so easy to hit after he comes from his ult, but I'm open to that being wrong.  

> 5:18 - I like to go out the choke to deflect for the team, especially since you don't have a tank; But if you do flank, make sure to follow through ;)  

So here is an instance where I had an idea of "Well Reddit says I should be poking more for ult charge, so I guess I'll do that." In general, I think I would've more typically committed to the flank (or flanked far-left). I do distinctly remember back in S1 that I would always go main to deflect Rein firestrikes for ult.  

> 5:28 - Didn't turn around fast enough.  

Yeah I wonder what I was thinking. Maybe I was split between "ignore DF and keep LMBing people" (stupid) and "I gotta reload anyway so I might as well get one last glance of what's going on over there".. or something. IF I turned faster I probably could've saved my Ana (who I didn't even know was there), and I didn't NEED to reload (I still had 9 shuriken left).. I actually dunno what I was thinking.  

> 6:16 - Should've either chased with the Reaper or waited to engage until he was in position to capitalize on your distraction.  

Great point. I didn't even realize or care that my Reaper was there. It's like my team's existence didn't matter.  

> 6:24 - Lapse in situational awareness  

I got disoriented VS Doomfist. This happens a lot. How TF do I stop getting so disoriented? I even see Shadder get disoriented sometimes, but not nearly as often as I do.  

> 6:31 - The rest of your team was regrouping. 1 v everyone.  

So @ 6:29 I dashed through a DF who was at 1 bar of HP. Afterwards, you can see that he immune'd the dash by popping his ult. I do think the dash was the "correct" decision (99/100 he would have died), and it almost looks like he no-regged the dash. My decisions after that were from the immediate panic that ensued: he didn't die so I didn't get the dash reset, which was my ticket out. I should've kept a cooler head and probably just jumped out the window or something. The ult was a hail mary that maybe I could ult and use the dash reset to get behind people, secure a skill or two, and GTFO. I likely would not have made the same decision in comp (where I tend to sit on ults forever and often end rounds with them because I never see opportunities....).  

Do you see any times I **should have** ulted in this or any other map?   

> It's hard to get a grasp of your gamesense in regards to ult economy and usage and positioning in QP  

Generally I'd say I have a good grasp on ult economy -- I typically shotcall for teams and keep track of big-play ults (Grav, Earthshatter, etc), though I tend to forget the small-play ults (eg: junkrat tire, high noon) unless they haven't been used in a long time.  

> Biggest thing to work on I'd say is your rmb > dash > rmb combo and aiming dash at people's feet so you don't have to take risky lmb shots   

If you have time, could you review one again and tell me if I double-jump enough? Maybe a lot of my issues (disorientation, lack of survivability in close-range) might come from a lack of double-jumping. My friend tells me that I double-jump far less than other Genjis that he sees at our SR.  

> You seem to be a tad bit impulsive and go for whoever you get wind of instead of having a definite target in mind.  

How do I balance between coming up with a target ("I'ma go for Mercy!") VS having to deal with their protectors ("Zarya keeps bubbling her and McCree is hugging her ass!") VS time to poke for ult charge VS helping my teammates?  

>  You should always have a sequence queued up with what you're going to do   

Should I take longer to study the battlefield before blading? Take the first blade I did in the first video (Dorado - 4:12). I could have stood still for 1-2s to get an idea for their whole team, but I fear that the longer I am visible the more time they have to prepare for me. If they know where I was/where I'm going with my blade, they will possibly shoot me down faster. Should I not worry about that and assume they are sufficiently distracted by my teammates? Is this another issue of "I forget that I have teammates"?  

Thanks for the thoughts!
> One thing that I noticed was the lack of a tank, which allows Genji to do his job much easier than without.

I want to be able to be good enough at Genji to OTP up to GM as others have, even if I don't actually OTP because of bad team comps sometimes. How do others play Genji when there's no tank? Do they just lose 100% of the time?  

This is an important question, too, because sometimes the tanks aren't being effective. Eg, Hanamura point A offense, two reins are just bumpin' shields at the choke and there's a Torb and/or Symm in the backlines. HowTF do I handle this? My tanks aren't making space and there are too many turrets and shit for me to be a worthwhile distraction!  

> You need a gameplan. You can't just go in there as Genji and hope for the best.  

I agree 100%, but here's my problem: if I look for a good opportunity to blade, I just don't see any. I always feel like either the enemy team is too scattered OR their attention is too much on me for me to get a blade off. Eventually I just feel pressured into blading simply because "I've had it for 3 minutes now!" How do I identify good opportunities to blade? Obviously if there are 6 dudes in a grav or their entire team is distracted by my Reinhardt and a Mercy is in the back waiting for a ress, sure, but what about times when I generally only see 1-2 people at a time? For huge swaths of the Dorado video, you can just see that I never really run into more than 1 or 2 people at a time. Can you point out some "Golden opportunities to ult" that I may have just missed?  

> Other evidence that exemplifies your instinct-not-planned-based gameplay is your desire to flank.  

Also my ADD about targeting. I'm like "Hey I'm gonna flank OH WAIT A WINSTON I'LL PAD ON HIM." I really generally don't know what I should be doing in my downtime.  

How do I make plans? "I'm gonna kill Mercy!" OK how? She has a Zarya and a McCree watching her ass!  

> To help facilitate this style of thinking, move with the flow of your team.  

What does this mean? Identify if my team is being aggressive VS defensive and try to assist accordingly?  

A lot of the time in comp games, I do wait around behind enemy lines waiting for my team to push in with the intention of Dblading or flanking a healer once my team actually engages, but this still often gets me a run-in with a pocketed McCree or a Zarya or something. And how do I help my team during defensive moves? If my team is retreating, should I flank the healers to draw their DPS's attention and retreat to a flank, or should I also just retreat?  

Should I generally be retreating towards my team more, or should I be retreating behind the enemy team to set up future flanks?  

> "What is my team doing that will allow me to do what I can best?"  

If my team has a JR, should I be watching the enemy's frontlines from my frontlines looking for people who took flak damage to dash/combo/dashout? If my team has a Widow/Hanzo, should I be watching their backlines for anyone who has been hit by a sniper bodyshot to dash/combo/dashout? Am I thinking about this correctly? What if I do this but my snipers suck and never land any bodyshots? What if I do this but their healers get on the people so fast that I end up just trying to combo a dude with a mercy pocket and then I don't get a dash reset?  

> Here's some resources that will jump start your understanding of this:  

Thanks. Going to review them right now.  

EDIT: Appreciate the resources and they are definitely insightful. It was only recently that I had any idea about poking enemies with my team and then dashing just to secure kills and getting out.  

I have a question as well: how do I stop getting so disoriented as Genji? So much shit I see in videos involves Genjis doing like 720 degree spin headshot noscopes with sword. When I play Genji, I often dash in and then am like "WTF where is everyone?!"
I see. I will make more of an effort to focus on building ult charge.  

Thanks! No apology needed. The more words, the better!
Sony vegas > media generators.
Like what /u/Reaper5289 said, just 2 games isn't enough to gauge your gamesense and positioning. You're clearly a better Genji than me in terms of mechanics. But your ult economy needs a lot of work. Both games where you've ulted, you only got 1 or 2 kills, and they were mostly the DPS. You need to know what you want to achieve when you ult, otherwise you'd be better off playing Tracer or Pharah.
Yeah my ults tend to be very hit-or-miss. 50% of the time they look like shadder shit. The other 50% of the time they look like trash. But 100% of the time I sorta go in with no plan outside of having a general idea where one or two people might be... And even then, no prioritization goes on.

In need of advice for dealing with toxic people and improving my hero pool (Tanks/Healers)
Sorry in advance, I'm probably going to ramble lol. I picked up Overwatch over the summer and I love it. I feel like I am a decent player, I placed high silver in s5 (~1750) but since it's probably where the most toxic people are (they're everywhere ofc, but I'm pretty sure it's been agreed upon that the most are there, since most players place into silver/gold.) It's hard for me because I want to advance into gold this season and I know I can, but the amount of shitty people and the shitty behavior is just really hard for me to find a way around. I'm sure lots of you have been through this stage and I just need some advice on how to deal with people who are just assholes no matter what you do, people who throw, people who leave, etc. I've heard it's helpful to turn voice off until you get out of the bronze/silver toxic breeding grounds, but I also don't want to screw over the team by not being in voice. People being shitty usually stresses me out and affects my gameplay negatively so this part is pretty crucial. I want to climb in the most effective way possible, but being newer to competitive I am not sure how. I only have two friends I play comp with and trust to do so with, and I still get assholes who just ruin the game... I only played maybe 20 matches of comp in s5 because of it. Out of those few matches, I had TWO different occassions where someone threw because I am a girl. Hell, my friend and I have even been accused of being shitty dps one tricks-- my friend is a gold mercy main, and while I am a Pharah main, I'm no one trick (ironically, I wasn't even playing dps in that match.) It sucks because a lot of people won't fill and I end up filling despite being the best by far with Pharah, but I'm not going to be the guy who autolocks a dps if we need a tank or healer. 


On that note, I could use some tips to get better with tanks/healers. My favorite healer is Zenyatta and I'm okay with him, but I could use some improvement. I changed my keybinds for orbs to mouse scroll up and down, but other than that, I'm not really sure. Secondarily I can play Ana but my aim with her definitely needs some work still, especially with sleep darts. My first main was D.va, but I've let myself go. This is kinda iffy with her rework coming up so I probably shouldn't start relearning her until that's out of the way, but if you have tips for her rework from the ptr or tips that won't change with the rework please do let me know, like good nuke placement stuff. I also like to play Orisa/Zarya, and am average with both, so any and all tips are welcome there. I'm never sure when the best time is to ult with Orisa. I have ~50 hours on Pharah and while I think I'm pretty good and am well aware of her strengths, weaknesses, strategies, etc. I'm still no grandmaster so if you have any tips for her I'm all ears. I learned most of what I know from just playing her and from Valkia's guides and videos. I think I need to get better with another dps, but I'm not really sure which one since I play almost every hero to some extent. I think I should try to learn Tracer, Reaper, or maybe even Genji, but I'm not all that great with any of them right now and don't know where to start. Thanks in advance.



Oh man, sorry, this is a lot of text. I'm in a weird spot and want to be the best I can be with so much at once lmao


**Tl;dr: how do I effectively deal with toxics in silver and climb into gold without having a group to queue with? how do I get better with Zenyatta, Ana, D.va, Zarya, and Orisa? I main Pharah but would also like to pick up and improve greatly with a second dps. I play everything, so I'm not sure which is best to learn. maybe Reaper, Tracer, or Genji?**

thanks famThere's nothing that can make you stop caring about toxic players if you're the type of person who is bothered by that. My tip is to mute them, just that specific person, especially if they're not contributing in chat and just being douchebuckets. Ignore them, don't respond, act like you can't hear them/read what they're saying. Responses feed the trolls. 

See if you can find at least one or two people to q with, it'll lower your chances of being with a troll and will be nice to have someone to back you up or laugh them off with. 

You should be able to climb well with Tracer in my experience, so I'd learn her next. There are lots of videos on YouTube dealing with getting better and perfecting your aim. Make a custom game and just practice tracking and flicking. My tip for learning a new character: Commit a weekend (or a few days) to ONLY playing that character. Do QuickPlay (obviously) or Arcade/Custom games and just focus on that character. 

Really try to avoid solo queuing. Even if you just add someone you played with and invite them to play with you. Or choose "prefer this player" when you like someone so you can try to get placed with people you know you like. 


When there are toxic people in my games I just start bitching about positivity and how arguing and being an asshole will just cause more problems than it's worth. If that doesn't work (it usually does) I just mute them. I've found finding one or two consistent people to queue with really helps with toxic dicks. 
The devs PROMISED that reports are going to be taken "seriously" this time.

Report toxic players every time, silence them, then move on.

If there is no noticeable improvement in the level of toxicity this season, I'm out of OW as well as many I know and I've been here since S1.  I'm tired of the bullshit.  I'm tired of Blizzard's lack of public crackdown.  I'm tired of people getting a slap on the wrist and me seeing them in my games a week later.

There's other games to play that I would be willing to move my money over to support and I'm not the only one.


So far for me, this season has not been any better as far as toxic players. I did get immensely lucky in my placements...on both mine and my boyfriend's account I only lost 2 matches, which included two games where a player left on our team and we still rolled the enemies. I really feel we did so well because we had no toxic screaming players in voice chat and we all nicely worked together.

However, since I finished with placements I would say 80% of the games now include a toxic player (I'm gold on PS4). I have no choice but to mute and I do so happily. I'm never worried I'm going to miss anything of value from them because anything that comes out of their mouth only brings the team down. They just scream that people are retarded yet they give no tips, aren't shot calling, and most likely making dumb moves themselves while blaming it on the healer and all the other "trash players" for being the reason they lose.

It's never worth it to let a toxic player ruin your game. I tend to soak up energy so having an ass on my team severely effects my gameplay if I don't mute and forget. I continue to talk in voice chat, esp since I play a lot of Zen so it's important for me to call out my discords and such. Continuing to speak in voice chat and not letting a chode affect the outcome has resulted in me making a few new friends that I can team up with.

Stay positive, ignore the soul sucking vampires, and enjoy the new season! <3
Use paragraphs. And to your question use the mute button when needed, and be positive for your team. 

Compliment your teammates. 
Zarya specific: you go at chokepoint, you see a big source of damage (usually a projectile like Pharah rockets, Junkrat nade, Rein firestrike), you specifically eat it. With the choke spam, that's a way to get high energy quickly.

Someone in your team who overextends and/or is (getting) low will net you lots of energy and if healers are on point, you just give him a solo res (impactful). Tanks are good at that. Save the Mercy if you see her low, give Genji enough time to use deflect might save them.

Once high energy, you just stay safe but keep beaming people. Meat > shield. And try to snowball your advantage with it. Show who is the alpha by putting tons of pressure onto someone (195 dps -> 1 second to take down a squishy). It doesn't matter what you do, it is effective (you have the dps of a soldier non headshot at effective range, which is not expected of you). Stay alive, tell chat you are high energy and keep me alive.

When a tank overextends, farm them, they are the most reliable source of ult charge. Don't default to them though, sometimes killing Genji is worth more.

Also farming 3-4 grav during the course of the match is a way to win a match. Don't just save people, farm your advantage.

If you can enable a flanker with a bubble, it's amazing because the enemy will shift their focus on an "unkillable" target and they may tunnel vision.

Play Zarya in choke heavy map (Eichenwald, King's row), preferably not in koth (Tracer and Genji will take you down once your bubble is down).

As for mic, I've climbed solo queue from gold to diamond with tanks. Mic was reslly helpful but you have to use it well.

Mic for little things (hog is out of position, kill him!!!!) is useful once people are kinda good and confortable enough with the game. I would say actively use mic once you have reached plat, people are older and more likely to listen to your calls.

Also sounding like a boring person doesn't get you much attention, but people still listen. You can get hyped but not too much. 

Those following call out are useful at any tiers and are always useful because it "leads the team without sounding like a dick". Communicate pick off because it is the best incentive for your team to move in.
"Anything is dead" is a great call out. Positive reinforcement to make the one who killed someone on the enemy team fell good without congratulating him and sounding too PMA. Seriously. 
"Healers are dead" is a really good one.
"I'm on X" such that people focus with you and you get the kill faster. 

"Don't stack for grav", "rein has shatter", "pharah/reaper/soldier/genji is looking to ult us" are good calls because you can avoid those ults entirely with good positionning.

"Winston's half!", "Ana one!" will make your team feel like they are in one of those pro gamer streams and make them work with you while feeling really good if you get the pick.

"I want to use my ultimate" is a way to signify that you have ult already (makes them trust you), self congratulate you (weird but feelsgoodman) and have the shape of a plan for next teamfight.

If you make one or two bad calls (you will know when you do one) just sush for the rest of the game and concentrate on doing well.

Make sure you know what your tone of the voice is, because sounding annoyed is damaging.

If you play tank or support, you have time to call out stuff, else nobody else will.

Once your team feels something positive of your call out, they are likely to listen to you and even communicate themselves.

For climbing:
Don't die first, call out a missplay if you see a big one and win the first teamfight such that your team stays cohesive and feels in the mood to play OW.

Take break after 2 losses or call it a day.

Train your aim on bots for several hours wkth tracer and mccree, even if you are a tank player (I've did and it improve my Zarya effectiveness tremendously).

Write things down (anything), review vods of your own if you can (tremendous help).

Watch Qwark28 (submit him a vod) on youtube if you can, he is really fucking good at pointing out mistakes even if he sounds dull. 

Canasian for Zarya tips and vod reviews (he repeats himself a lot though).
I would advice to lower your hero pool to 3 champions MAX until you reach platinum, there is no point to spread thin on champions, thing is playing every champions is like Chess or Cooking, easy to learn impossible to master fully. I mean you play Pharah and Valkia plays Pharah, but there is big difference in your and his Pharah i bet, so whats the point of jumping ship if you just started on the path of Mastering a hero? Thing is when you say "wanna be good, or wanna know how to play X,Y,Z champion" you have to consider every possible 1v1 scenario against every other hero , every possible map difference when it is weak or strong, every effective map route for quick traversal and angle to shoot, every counter to deal with not to mention best ways to use your ultimate AND be mechanically good with that champion. Speaking about being mechanically good, basically every champion have different shooting mechanics, some are hitsscant some are not, some fire single bullet some are automatic, time to kill, time to reload, specifics of each weapon effective range and on and on. Usually its Muscle Memory that deals with memorizing all those specifics, but how do you develop and solidify muscle memory if you switch between 10 champions every hour?  Point is learn couple of champions at a time, set small goals like "up till gold i will play those tree, then in gold i will learn two more" and so on, one step at a time and also dont be discouraged about all the aspect of learning a Hero i mentioned, its just things to consider to become better, no need to learn everything but if you wanna improve you just have to think about all this stuff from time to time and it will help.  

Theres not much to add about toxicity problem, each and every person finds solution for themselves, some use mute, some become aggressive in return and vent in counter-toxicity, some have high Ego approach when they treat all others as third grade and value their own opinion more than anything else, some use third perspective and abstract themselves from all the internet pressure,  some are calm and thick-skinned by nature and just shrug it off. Its your pick and you kinda must find what works best for you, i personally cant stand all the Voice-Loudness so am not using any voice-com at all with Random people, but thats personal preference some think that using voice will form this mythical "team cooperation", and i guess things you believe in are things that will work.  

Specifically Pharah advice, hm focus your threats first Soldier/Cree/Widow etc, if you can take them out, then majority of the time you will have free pass DPSing everyone else and thus have more time in a fight, even focusing sups is less important when you will be dead from Cree,Soldier or Widow in 2 seconds after starting shooting. I guess Mercy is one and only exception for this rule, but shes not always easy to catch so even with mercy on enemy team its better to prioritize Threats, and also dont believe in the Pharah is countered by X,Y,Z crap, sure you have to play more cautious and smart when they have hit-scan, but Pharah still have very big shot at winning 1v1 against any Hitscan if she can make fast and unexpected advance, that especially counts towards Widow. 
Okay, yeah, you're right haha I often go to mute but I worry I'll end up missing something important in voice or chat and don't which is probably most of my problem. Solo queue sucks, yeah. I think I'll spend the day learning tracer today :-)
Yep. Always report em, but until they fix it, I almost always end up in a game with them again... :(
Yeah, same :( good luck to you too!
Listen fam, I am all about using proper grammar, but I typed this on mobile... but thanks
thank you v much!!! 
I don't religiously follow valkia, just used his input to learn secret routes and to manage fuel and aim better lol. Like I said, the rest on my own. I like learning a lot of heroes so I can be flexible and know how to counter them. I wasn't meaning I have to MASTER them, just improve, since I'm not sure which I prefer entirely. I like having a big pool to choose from and I don't have any issues picking other heroes up and it doesn't affect me negatively at all, but if that's how you like to play, that is fine. I think it's especially useful because if the heroes I am best with are all picked already, I need to have another hero I can play well :) if I could just do 3 heroes, I wouldn't have needed to make this post, since I already have 3 that I consider to be my best. That is why I asked for tips on those heroes because I want to expand and not stay with the same 3. Tips doesn't mean a playstyle I have to follow exactly, just general little bits that can help with inproving, is all. But thank you, and thank you for the tips! :-)
Just hit the enter button twice every now and again haha.
I know how paragraphs work, it's just a Reddit post... It's not like I spelled things wrong or my point wasn't conveyed correctly. But thank you.

Genji Help!
Hey everyone! I love playing Genji and consider myself decent with him currently. I really enjoy his abilities but I lack the knowledge and/or skill to do good with his ultimate. I either use it at the wrong time or have a very hard time getting more than 1 kill with it, any tips?

(2300-2450 Sr if that matters)I would say when to ult just comes with time, but when you ult there is some things i like to do. You should always think what hero on the enemy team has the most impact generally this will be the supports. when you find your first target i like to dash through them then ult swing dash through them this will kill any 200 hp target, i also usually reposition so i dash towards the next target. Also try to not get stuck swinging on tanks they should always be the last target.

try to maybe watch some good genji players and see when they ult. I recommend carpe and haksal 
I found this video helpful https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C2jkBPPgpVs

Ranked Anxiety - I feel boosted.. - Anyway to overcome this?
Hey there, 


My issue is ranked anxiety. I'm a competitive player and this made me really fall in love with the game but I've come across a detrimental (to me) mental barrier. 


Here's some context - 

I started playing the game in Season 3 and played around 70 hours in my first season. I finished that season at 2860, high platinum. In the next season, I had a season high of 4116. This was because of a 13 win streak and maining Zarya. The problem started here. I was put into a rank where I felt that I didn't belong. That season, I only played for 26 hours. 


Season 5 rolled around and Zarya - my main hero - pretty much sank out of the meta, and I instead swapped over to other heroes, mainly Tracer and McCree. At this time I had 2 accounts. My main account finished 3904 with a season high of 3930, and my alternate account finished 3903 with a season high of 4000 exactly.


Now for me to hit GM without SR multipliers like season 4, I knew that I wasn't boosted, but I just never felt like I belonged there.


Fast forward to this season - season 6 - and on the same day, both of my accounts hit grandmaster. My main finished placements at 3960 and my alternate account at 3840.


Now the problem is that I don't want to go on my accounts, I feel like a burden, the sense of not belonging, but I have the capability of putting 2 accounts into that division?

Any help?

Kind regards,

Are you familiar with imposter syndrome? This sounds like a textbook case to me. You have the credentials, which you've achieved multiple times under multiple SR systems with multiple accounts, but you still feel like you don't belong. The anxiety about playing at that rank sounds to me like fear that you'll be exposed (through poor gameplay or something) as a "fraudulent" or undeserving GM player.

I can't speak to anxiety about being highly ranked in a video game, as that's not an experience I'm ever likely to have. However, imposter syndrome is something that's all the rage for educational talks and such in the software industry, so there's a lot of material out there about it. I would suggest reading some and seeing if it feels consistent with your experience. I don't know that there are many well-researched solutions, but I think a fake-it-til-you-make-it approach to having confidence in your own competence can work.
Ya I'm having a similar issue. Do u play with friends? This is my go to advice for anyone with anxiety over overwatch. For me, my friends and I played a TON of quickplay last season when I was really afraid of comp and hated solo queueing. We got used to each other and became closer and we feel comfortable playing together now. This way, your friend will likely notice what you're doing right and will be more concerned about the other members of your team. And the team is less likely to pick on you because you have backup. Now I'm definitely closer to being comfortable with solo queueing, though I'm not quite there yet. Just play games and don't worry about it being a win or a loss, but as you're playing think more about why you're winning or losing. I personally haven't gotten many flashy plays but that doesn't mean I'm not contributing a bit at least. As you go, you'll get a lot better. (Sorry that this is probably incoherent, I'm bad at typing long essays on the internet)

Edit: Also, you having an alt in GM definitely makes me believe you deserve that rank. Maybe it's just because the GM games seem similar to your lower ranked games that you feel like you aren't doing something right.
You're not playing the game for fun if you're having anxiety about losing. Video games aren't supposed to be treated as a career unless you're an actual eSports player. 

Have fun to win. 
maybe you dont belong in that rank maybe you do, its not your fault. the matchmaker puts you in those games so i would stop caring.
Thanks for your comment, just read and watched some stuff on Imposter Syndrome and it does seem like I do indeed fit the credentials. 

But I will try your suggestion of just "fake it till you make it" as this does seem like a good way to overcome my problem. 

Thanks once again! :)

Edit : Looks like your approach worked! Both my accounts are at 4100, I'm never too worried going in to a game, I receive far more compliments to complaints and things are good, thanks! :D
I think you've missed the point. OP is having anxiety about having accounts in grandmaster and being afraid to play and lose SR from top-tier rank.
I think you can take a competive game (or sport, or other contest) serious without beeing a progamer. 
I guess what I was trying to get at is that OP should just take the hurdle and play a lot, and if they stay in GM take that as proof that they belong there. Theres just no way someone could consistently be in GM maining who this person mains unless they belonged there. Playing with friends helped me be brave enough to keep playing, so maybe OP should try that. 

At A Loss About My Aiming Technique
I find aiming with a high sensitivity way too inconsistent. Occasionally it's on point and I'm one clipping left right and centre as tracer, or nailing headshots with McCree, but more often than not I couldn't hit the broadside of a barn. This is because the minuscule wrist adjustments are difficult to commit to muscle memory accurately.

With a low sensitivity I find that I use multiple wrist movements, having to lift the mouse off the pad, when performing a 180. This leads to inaccurate and unstable tracking/aiming and jerky, imprecise movements. This basically means that my aim is trash. I just find it impossible to use my arm in the heat of a team fight. My mousepad is about 25cm across but that doesn't ever hold me back. 

Are there ways of training myself to use my arm, or do I just have to make do with playing pharah (who I can aim with) and lucio and ana, mixed in with a bit of zarya? My DPI is 1650 with in game sensitivity at 4.02 (found using the PSA method). I used a higher dpi to reduce pixel skipping, but I'm not sure that that makes much of a difference at all. 25 cm is too small

1650/4 is still high




What to do when I only lose? (25% win rate)
I just started Season 6 and the devs said that they changed the system a bit so that you get placed where you left of. They also changed the system on how much you gain, because the season is shorter.   
[video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aHhCZmH8Ofw)  
This video shows my SR through the seasons and in S6 I got placed at ~2600. I now played 4h ranked and only won 4 games. Something in this season is different than usual, because a win rate of ~25% is not normal. If I could win then I should be able to get reasonable sr to get back to diamond, but I don't win. I also lose like 10sr per game, because my mmr is not at 2525. I'm now nearly in gold and wanted to ask what I should do.    
I play zen, ana, tracer, genji, mccree and mei and only play solo-q.  
My spirit is now kinda not existing so any good tips on stopping to lose?  There isn't much you could do that would be more helpful than posting a VOD so that people can help you improve and figure out *why* you're losing.
This season's just weird, man. My season high last season was 3031, ended it at 3000 (I play only until I reach diamond and stop now, played about 25 games) Went 2-8 this season, thinking I was gonna be 2500 or something. Nope, got 3009. Lol. 


https://www.overbuff.com/players/psn/AshaBellanar?mode=competitive for reference

Though through the entire 5 seasons so far, I've never placed below 3000, so maybe that's why

I feel the same, man. I've only lost games since i played 4-6 in my placements, now 8 losses in a row. I'm in 3041 now, and I've never had so incompetent mates in this rank... I think i'll let people settle into their ranks next season before playing, cause this is ridiciulous.
Win more

Like what are you imagining we'll say?
I lost 6 placement games and this season's placements put me 432 points higher than where I ended last season I placed.

Every season I just did placements and almost never played comp afterwards. Never attempted to climb. So I really don't know what algorithm is working this season, usually placements would just flat out put me 200 points below last seasons's sr.
I think placements are fucky this season, I've been playing at around 2500 with a mate and almost every match we're getting players who should be and have previously been silver/bronze.
I've noticed the same thing today, the ranks seem a bit inflated. I'll wait until people drop a bit before playing again

Need help with aim settings!
I tried to change my control settings, sensitivity and recticle look, but it seems like only it's color and form is changing. The sensitivity remains default, even if there is another number written.
[screenshot 1] (https://scontent-bru2-1.xx.fbcdn.net/v/t31.0-8/21246482_1843698035959362_7204923127309425744_o.jpg?oh=c5cb1f065a18264b8edde77f7c04116b&oe=5A280D07)
[screenshot 2] (https://scontent-bru2-1.xx.fbcdn.net/v/t31.0-8/21273103_1843698039292695_3469846338321473848_o.jpg?oh=9e760e24f7dca5a0d5e1df7ee3dcee8d&oe=5A5FC011)Are you testing the changes on ana? Yoi're editing her settings specifically.
Ana is an example. I changed almost every hero's sensitivity. I mean, tried to change.

Trend I've noticed in placements so far
Twice so far, I have played games against very low leveled players, some of them even less than level 30. These two games consisted of our team, made up of mostly level 100+ players, against there team, made up mostly low leveled players. We won both games. Now, you might be saying, "level doesn't matter", but the problem is when it's the players first time in comp. Regardless of level, wouldn't it make more sense to put the players who are completing placements for the first time into there own games? This might seem mean, but I'm sure it's frustrating for someone who has to play with a team of new players who haven't learned the general "rules" of competitive play. Yes, that would make it much easier for the smurfs, but regardless of how quickly they climb, they're still going to reach their deserved rank. What do you guys think?Man I had placements against top 500s and smurfs almost every game lol. I'm mid diamond. Not complaining because I'd love for it to stay that way but it's a chance of pace for sure.
Low level/first time comp accounts don't have proper match making. The game still has to figure out which elo those players belong to.

Bad aim, bad rank, no idea why
Hello, I have been playing Overwatch for 2 months now, my aim is garbage and I'm stuck in bronze. I don't want to wine about MMR hell, bad matchmaking or anything, I just want some tips because I know I am capable of doing better. My first FPS was starwars Battlefront (By DICE and EA). My aim was bad at first but by the end was better (above 1.0 KDR). Then I started playing Battlefield 1 after a month or 2 I was at 2.0 KDR. At that time I had a $14 wireless mouse at about 1600 DPI at the default bf1 in-game sensitivity, way to high but I was somehow doing good. Then I started playing Overwatch at 1600 DPI and 15 in game sensitivity. I did good for a while and placed in 1500 about in silver, climbed to 1714 Sr then started dropping. That was about the time I started playing comp with 2 other friends. I went down to 1400 Sr then stopped playing comp with them. But I was still dropping, I ended season 5 at 1100 Sr. My friends ended at 900 and 800 Sr. After the season I switched my DPI to 800 and 9 sensitivity. I feel like I can aim a little bit better after a week sence the change. But I still feel like I'm doing badly. I used to main reaper but now I can't decide. I try to use tracer/gengi but most of my shots still don't hit. I don't really know if any of the information I just spent time writing actually helps. Any tips would help. Just to clarify, I use 800 DPI 9 sensitivity, clawgrip, $14 mouse with mouse pad and my graphics are epic 60+ fps and good monitor. What do people use for sensitivity/grip?
Has anyone else had this problem?
Thanks!Turn off vsync and unlock the frame rate. Also turn settings to low (except max textures, effects and maybe medium shadows) to get extra frames. This has a significant effect on how smooth turning your camera is even when exceeding 60fps on a 60Hz monitor which will help you see targets a bit better.

As for sensitivity, yours is on the higher end still, but still very well within the range of personal preference. Keep experimenting to find what feels right. It was months before I settled on my own settings. I personally use 800dpi 4.5 sens with a G303 mouse. 

Outside of settings, practice aiming in custom games and the training map a little bit everyday before you play and try to make it challenging for yourself. Examples would be going for headshots only or practicing accurate tracking/flicking. There are a good number of resources on practice routines from highly skilled players available as well.
Which heros do you play a lot? I know it's easy to type your dpi and sens but it's much better conveyed through real life units. How many inches or cm it takes your character to 360 is the best way to accurately measure sens. I feel your sens might be up a bit too high still 
https://www.esportsettings.com/overwatch-optimization-guide/ may help with your video/general game settings optimization.
Sensitivity is a tough topic, but I'd recommend lowering your sensitivity and focusing on precise aim. (For clarification, I use 2.5-2.75 in game depending on my mood with 800 dpi.)

Aside from that, use a headset and acknowledge the fact that Blizzard spent a good chunk of money to ensure that the game provides a lot of useful information from sound. Actively acknowledge when people are sneaking up behind you or your team and in general try to be more aware of where the enemy team is and not just focus on shooting whatever's in front of you.

A majority of lower elo games can be won by simply taking Zen and sitting about 10 steps farther back and taking a good look at the battlefield. You'll notice positioning mistakes from your team and you'll see flankers as they come at you. It's pretty fun ( I may or may not have a smurf down there.. )
Thanks!

Question about Bronze to GM streams
Every time someone does one of these, doesn't the addition of a significant statistical outlier increase the average performance of the heroes they play at that rank on that map (i.e. performance based SR baseline)?I doubt it, thousands of people are playing that hero that day. A single player will have little to no impact on the average no matter how good they are
I get the feeling that GM level players smurfing in Bronze is way over reported. I'm a bronze player whose been steadily climbing out, and I can say I can't really think of a single instance where a player was clearly way better than everyone else. I've seen people who threw their way down to Bronze and still had the diamond rank and what not, but if you only listened to reddit, you'd think every game or two had a GM smurf in it.  
I think people just can't believe when they've been outplayed and chalk it up to the other team having a smurf.
Here's the impact it has: it makes life harder for Bronze players like me.  All smurfs and "bronze to GM" accounts have to be banned.  Bronze is a skill ranking with trolls, yes, but also with players who work hard and try to climb out.  This was discussed in another thread earlier.

[TIP] Using Hanzo's Scatter Arrow to destroy Winston shield is highly effective
Especially in lower ratings destroying Winston Bubbles when enemy plays dive comp is immensely effective. I know this is something many people already know about but i figured there might still be some out there that might profit from it. Just aim right infront of it and E and you will completely negate the enemy push and render winston an easy target!It's probably better to ask team to spam into shield so you can scatter someone after the shield is down.
Waste of scatter
That means that Team is listening, is Close enough to shoot at the Bubble and you will need to Land Ur Scatter one a Hero instead of the easier to Hit Bubble.. but yes, usually that would be what Most people tend to do. Not saying my idea is ideal and Always the right choice, but there's alot of situations where it would be.
1500 Rating...?
Scatter is 450 max damage. That's an easy kill on a player, why waste it on a shield?
because of the stuff i pointed out..?

How many hours until Tracer clicks?
I currently have 15 hours on Tracer and I get so mad sometimes that I can't 1 v 1 a soldier or a Hanzo, my tracking is superb however I always go for headshot as im used to McCree and naturally aim at the head and maybe it's why I struggle to 1 clip a lot, although even most pros only 1 clip less than half of the time. 

I'm  just wondering how many hours it took you on Tracer to really start making a difference and impact on your team etc.

Also with 1 v 1 I should always stay at 10m range? Being too close seems to be pretty stupid and harder to track considering range drop off occurs after 10m.

Any tips you could give me regarding her?
Thanks!
Imo
1v1 is when you see someone someone sees you and you fight 

Tracer is not someone that you want to do this with.
She is one of the best flankers
You want to use her to get behind or beside your team and throw down the dps.

You might not get a lot of kills but when your throwing down damage and your pulling 1 or 2 of their players away to deal with you it can make a huge difference in the game overall.

I suggest watching the lastest world cup, the US team has a great tracer player watch his positioning when and how he goes in and more importantly when to get out.

Something that will always stick with me is when a raid leader from wow told my guild.
You can't dps if your dead 
I have found that there is a very linear progression with tracer which makes one of my favorite heroes to play.

The more you play, the more you improve because the skill cap is so high. 

At each stage, you'll have make some breakthroughs that will take your game to the next level so continue playing until you no longer enjoy her!

Based on your other comments, here's what you might want to consider:

**Engaging**

Always make sure you have an advantage when you engage. In other words, YOU want to have the first shot and by the time they realize they are under attack, you've already emptied a clip on them. (For instance, if you're dueling soldier)

This means that you want to come from angles and/or behind where they aren't expecting you. Unless the opponent has 20hp, I never attack head-on. 

The exception to this rule is when I know there is a health pack within our 10m fighting range. I can be a bit more aggressive because I can blink by the health pack if I get hit. 

**Clean up Hero**

People call Tracer a distraction/flanker... and that's true but her ultimate ability is a clean up hero. You want to focus on people that are already weak (which implies your team is shooting at them). You can hunt down ANY hero that's weak because you're the fastest hero in the game. 

The biggest mistake I see is that Tracers go off on their own and try to 1v1 the entire team. You want to be right behind the enemy team (or at an angle) and when your team pushes in, you focus what THEY focus. (Not the other way around. You have more mobility than them)

As crazy as this sounds... you are one of the ultimate Tracer counters. If the enemy team has a tracer that's trying to kill your healers, you can hunt her down and she can't get away. It's like Flash vs Flash. 

**Target Prioritization**

Target prioritization changes when you're playing Tracer (from Mcree / soldier). With Soldier / Mcree, you're 60% attacking their DPS, 20% their support (if you can spot them) and 20% their tanks. 

Instead, with Tracer, I find there are 2 ways of playing that you constantly have to switch between. 

Mode 1 = Ult farming: 50% tank focus from an angle for free ult charge, 30% supports (if they get out of position), 20% DPS if you can get a clear damage-free shot. 

Mode 2 = Damage: When you have your pulse bomb (or close), that's when your target prioritization changes with about 60% support, 30% DPS and 10% tank. 

You become lethal and take out the Mercy / Ana / Zen wins you games. Soldiers, Zaryas (with the bubble almost expiring) are easy pulse bomb sticks. 

**Baiting**

With more hours, you get better at baiting out... everything. Flashbangs, hooks, waiting out discords, earth shatters, doomfist punches, etc. No other hero (except for maybe reaper's shade or zarya's bubble) can constantly bait out abilities like tracer does. 

**My biggest breakthrough**

Last, but certainty not least, the biggest recent breakthrough I had was trying to go entire games without dying as tracer. I recently went 46-0 on a KOTH map which was a huge achievement for me. (We won the game, 4 golds and I didn't die a single time) I find that when you focus on staying alive rather than doing damage, you end up doing both! 


In general, for most of the heroes I've learned, I find accelerated returns (noticeable skill difference) at around that ~50hr mark (tracer included).


For me dealing with McCree and Hanzo is using up blinks or a recall in order to bait the flash/scatter arrow. Then repeatedly blinking behind them and shooting making them 180 constantly. Most hitscans have a low sens so it usually takes them a while to turn fully. If your out of blinks it usually comes down to random sporadic movement and hoping they don't randomly hit you.


Yes, stay in the 10m range but make sure you have blinks/recall saved up. It is harder to track at a close distance but if you can land a full clip you can do insane damage vs a negligible amount at longer distance.


You should also try DeathMatch FFA, there are a lot of McCrees and Hanzos. You'll get plenty of experience out of it (just try not to tilt yourself when doing so xD).
I usually feel the first skill plateu at around 20 hours. Hanzo and soldier are risky to 1v1 as tracer. Hanzos will have better aim than you expect and so will soldier. They are also very tall and skinny targets. 

Try aiming for the neck not the head, this way just as much spread hits the head but also some hits the body. This will also make you more likely to hit them if they crouch spam. 

A full on 1v1 as tracer is not good. Even against a mercy, if their aim is decent the fight will be surprisingly even. 

Tracer destroys people when she has a .5 second advantage (aka one full clip). If you can get a full clip into someone before they react to you, then you can win the fight almost every time. 
I have like 120 Hours on Tracer right now and there is still a huge need for improvment I need to do even tho I can constantly keep a 60% + Winrate.

It took me like 30-40 Hours of playing until I got realy impactfull and started climbing.
I think as long as you see things to improve you are fine. And btw 1 v 1 a Hanzo or Soldier is in many situations not the right fight to take and its not an fight you should expect to dominate since both of them can burst you if you make a mistake.
depends on you, i have 5hrs on tracer and i think i'm doing fine, it clicked at around 1hr of continuous play (when i stopped trying to use shift to blink and didn't hit G for ult anymore)

>Also with 1 v 1 I should always stay at 10m range? Being too close seems to be pretty stupid and harder to track considering range drop off occurs after 10m.

no, because spread, damage falloff on tracer is pretty irrelevant because her spread is so high you only hit a few single bullets at range anyways

and yes tracking is harder but you do a lot more damage and are harder to hit, especially by hanzos widows etc.
Yes, stay close during 1v1. 10m should be a reasonably comfortable distance with tracking- it's not that close. I would guess that either you're going in way too far, or your tracking isn't as good as you think it is..
I'm no expert by any stretch of the imagination but I've been playing a lot of tracer lately so I'll throw in my two cents. You really shouldn't be looking to dual other dps heros as tracer in my opinion, she's just too squishy to be good at it and frankly, she's too good at other things - like taking down the enemy supports or cleaning up kills that your solider/tanks/other dps started. If you do find yourself in a dual though, I find the most important thing is to know who you are facing and how to bait out their abilities so you can dive in on them and take them out quickly. 

If you can bait out a flashbang, a scatter arrow, soldiers can of health or a hook you have a window of opportunity where you can get in close, reduce the effect of your gun spread, do damage - hopefully enough to kill - and recall out. It's not ideal and it takes skill to do correctly but it's safer then straight up trying to 1v1 another hero that does just as much damage as you do with more health. 
You may be trying to equate a certain amount of play time with results. While it's certainly true that the more you do anything in life, in general, the better you will become, there will always be people who pick up something quicker. Don't think in terms of hours, rather think in terms of how best to use those hours. An hour of good Tracer video may be more productive than 5 hours of actual gameplay.
It's not a predicted science. some take longer to be a good tracer, some less. it all depends if you're improving the elements you lack of. if it's aim or positioning, ult management and etc.
It's not about hours it's about proper use of your time. Someone could spend 100 hours and still be the worst tracer while another could spend 10 hours and understand her completely.

Ask herself how her kit can be used. Then just let your imagination roam. Think about efficiency and multiple usage. 
When you duel someone try to stay behind them with blinks. Force them to keep doing 180s to hit you. That's the most basic thing I can think of that I didn't really realize how stupid it really is that I wasn't doing it. The rest of it is just playing and learning as you go.
I currently have a little under 50 hours on Tracer and I feel as though I'm really getting better as her. I think the main thing that you need to learn as Tracer is how to bait abilities and move unpredictably, which allows you to stay alive longer and therefore do your job better. Once you get good at those two things 1v1ing becomes much easier as well as navigating team fights. You should also try to learn how to know where people will be after you blink so you can start attacking them immediately, but this will just come the more you play her as you get more comfortable and familiar with her blinks distance. Hope this helps. :)

Also I think FFA Deathmatch is really good at helping you improve with these things, as that is all about mechanical skill and dueling, which help you to develop the things I stated before.
Generally avoid those 1v1s. 

Hanzo can very easily one shot you. Even a sloppy scatter is enough.

S76 is usually tough to kill and a well place helix rocket will easily kill you.

Hanzo should be someone you can distract but you can't fight head on. S76, the best thing to do is force healing field in a bad location, then go somewhere else. Soldiers won't fight without the fight usually. So force him to use it and go dive someone else. 
Tracer is great at 1v1 though? Honestly, the moment that Tracer "clicks" is around the time that you'll have enough game sense to know when to take on 1v1s. That's the whole reason why she's one of the most popular carry heros in the game. Even in the world cup there are many moments where the Tracer wins 1v1s with ease.

Source: 120+ hours on Tracer
I wish I was put on a team who could handle the enemy team breaking off from the fight to deal with me.  I've pulled up to 3 people away from the payload in some games and my team still couldn't push through.
Uhhh not 1v1 info mate are you okay
This is exactly what I was looking for! Thank you man!

Now if I only I had the graffiti skin, it auto places me too 500
As a tracer main this is a damn good read. Reply back so i can come back to this when i need too.
I'm pretty sure Hanzo can just shoot and arrow and insta headshot if I'm right on top of him. 
It's likely a matter of not enough members of  your team not being able to tell you've kited 3 people. Communicate what you're doing and they'll be more likely to move in.
It's all about communication which is really hard when you solo queue sometimes you get lucky and over prople have mics or atleast are active in chat 
K here's your reply
I have over 100 hours on hanzo, the easiest way to kill a tracer is when she is predictably. I wait for her blink then try headshotting doesn't always work but I will get a body if anything. If my scatter is up I'll do the same or at the start of the 1v1.
he can too if you're 10m away, and it's easier
Yeah.  So far in solo queue I've only had at most 2 other players on mics this season.  It does get frustrating when the team comp is average but players are tentative, don't work together, and act like TDM at a choke point.

Oversumo individual rating is gold and current SR is 2860
I pick my hero last waiting for everyone else to pick their best hero, which means I'm not particularly great at any hero.  Oversumo has me at mostly gold performances with some platinum sprinkled in.  I want to get to diamond, should I keep the same strategy or instant pick my best hero?  I've never reached diamond in 5 seasons... any advice appreciated.  oversumo is meaningless dude
Oversumo gold means you are average for your sr not gold skill overall.  Somebody is gold with gold rating would be average in gold.  If you were master in your skill level you wouldn't be master rank just higher up in the ranks vs people of simile sr.
I only recently got OverSumo - am high master/GM overall, but most of my hero plays are only dia/master according to the app. What gives.

Filling is a tricky one - I fill exclusively and I fully regret it. I ended up being a healer main/off tank, and find no joy whatsoever playing any heroes I play but I didn't want to decay so I kept filling. My advice is to find a stack and work your way up that way.

I started instalocking dps this season on my alt, and boy what a mission. Teams are terrible - they'll happily run 6 dps every game. Not sure if it's the tier, or just bad luck but from 5 hours of comp yesterday, I got a whopping 10 games where we had decent comps (I'm not one to call teams bad because one person picked off meta either but what are these 6 dps teams in comp!). I actually gave up from the level of stupidity. 

Dropped 400 sr solo q - literally on fire the whole time but can't move forward because even when I pick off 2-3 players, my team continues to sit at the choke. It's a struggle, but I'm learning not to fill because I didn't get an alt account so that I can heal for lower tiers where I consistently get MVP as healer -_-

Duo'd with a friend at the end of the night, and went on a 13 win streak before bed. Literally we just went mccree + ana and forgot about the rest of the team. Amazing what a little bit of co-operation can do. My other friend has offered to be my healer while I practice dps - I feel really bad that he has to heal for me, but I don't think I'd survive as solo q with these teams. I hope it gets better after most people finish their placements.
I'm not higher than you but if you want to listen to someone who climbed 750sr last season with above 70% win rates with my most played 2 characters, don't always pick last. I pick last only when I'm in a 3 stack because I can play at least 2 heroes of every category well at my rank. When I solo queue I usually pick in the first half. Pick what you're confident with after seeing what kind of players your team has after pressing P and get some consistency going. About Oversumo, Those stats mean nothing. A Bronze player with Grandmaster stats isn't really playing like a GM. My ranked experience has been less stressful after stopping using that app. You'll know if you have had a good or bad game. Stats only help you to see if something is going wrong, and if so where (ex: low final blows on Genji).
I like OverSumo. I use it to track my progress.

The stats in it are per life though. Which means if you just don't die a lot, it improves your rank artificially.
Oversumo says I'm a gold Ana even though I've mained her in high Diamond/low Master for two seasons; I wouldn't pay much attention to where it "ranks" you.

 I think flexing/filling and finding a main hero are both perfectly good ways to reach Diamond. Just find what works for you and is the most enjoyable! The only thing I would pay attention to is your winrate% vs. your playtime on a hero. If you have a sub-50% winrate on a hero after a lot of hours played, I'd think about focusing on improving or even dropping that hero if you're not super attached to playing them. If you have a particularly high win% on a hero, maybe choose them more and learn to specialize in them.

FWIW I reached Diamond/Masters by narrowing my hero pool down to my top three (Ana/Mercy/D.Va, so that my team would always have at least a healer or tank). But that's just what worked for me personally.
Agreed. Super useless. 

Just wondering: What to Think about when practicing Aim?
So there are a lot of guides out there about practicing aim and they all say the same thing. Play more games, stay focused and don't autopilot. 

But what does that mean 'stay focussed'?

What am I supposed to think about and be focused on?I'll tell you what not to think about if you want to have optimal aim: Aim.

Never think when you aim about your aim, because aiming is 99% fine motor skills and 1% conscious thought. Keep your brain engaged by actively scanning for targets and observing their movement, interpreting their next action, and predicting their intentions. 

Does that Rein that is posturing have ult? Possibly. Probably. Better get into position to avoid that. Genji dove backline, time to swivel around. Bait deflect, track his movements, pressure as soon as deflect drops. 

Anyway, this question is about aim so what I'm illustrating is the moment you start thinking more about aim and less about what you are aiming at, your accuracy will go down. It's guaranteed. 
What they mean is that you should focus on target prioritization, don't get a tunnel vision but instead focus on the big picture.
Who is not behind cover, who has low hp etc.
For me, it's not tensing up my arm and keeping my arm steady as opposed to twitchy. 
When you engage you want to be shooting where youre most effective and not just willy nilly racking up gold damage and elims when you get no picks is what i think is the main point. Dont go off 1v1ing everyone. Do damage and if you see someone at low health you help kill them as oppose to chasing down the genji or reaper while youre team is fighting on point. Hopefully that makes sense. 

I made a progress tracker focused on SR with fun/helpful calculations in Google Sheets, wanted to share with y'all :)
http://bit.ly/2gB7kUP

Right click sheet tab, Copy To one of your own Sheets documents to use.

I wanted a simple clean way to see how my SR was changing because it seemed so mysterious, so I made this. I think the most useful calculation is estimated wins til rank up, can be skewed by win streaks though. My record SR gain was 88 last season, so that's cool to know since I kept track.

I also made a column to optionally mark DC's during matches, because I could swear to God that fate was against me in this regard. Turns out, out of 203 matches, 1 enemy dc and 11 dc's on my team...
Problem being stuck playing heroes i am not comfortable with
So my 2 friends and I play ranked as a 3 stack. we all want to play dps (I am a dps main) and they force the idea of taking turns rotating between support, tank and dps. So i get to play my preferred heroes for 1 in 3 games, and the games when I am support or tank, we lose or very narrowly win due to me playing zen. I am around 2050, one friend is around 1700 and the other around 1400

So my question is, what should I do? 
Should I not play with them?
Prove how good I am with dps?
Should I appear offline (I am on Xbox) and try o climb 1000sr above them?
Any other suggestions are much appreciated

Thanks

Edit: It isn't that I can't play tanks, it's that my friends don't want too despite the rotation idea and insist on playing dpspractice playing the other two roles. You 3 and the the rest of the world want to play DPS, so if you already lose when playing 2/3 of the main roles, and the one you win with is very popular.... you're going to lose a lot of matches unless you become at least proficient with the other two.

Plus they are a lot of fun. I'm a DPS player also but right now I play all attack characters except sombra mccree, all defense except widow, all the tanks, all the healers.

I basically can't drop below my regular SR because now I'm never caught without an option. At the very least keep your rotation
It's kind of telling that you didn't ask anything like 'which support should I learn?' or 'how can I become a good tank quickly?'  You mostly just asked about ways to play more DPS.   Broaden your horizons and learn some other roles, it will improve your overall game play.  
If you're just worried about winning and not impacting your rank, just don't play competitive with them. Play death match or 3v3 or quick play. There's lots of ways to play the game that isn't competitive.  
I would say because you aren't playing your best heroes a large percentage of the time you are severely hurting your rating. So you probably shouldn't play with them. I know this sounds harsh, but if you do want to improve and climb, you should be playing heroes that you are comfortable with and want to improve with as much as you can. You could also consider trying to get really good at another hero like a support or tank so you can play it while your friends play dps.
No problem. :)
Ok, Thanks
Which supports or tanks should I learn? i enjoy zen, lucio, rein and hog. Are those good enough
That is what I was thinking. Thanks

is dva getting shit on or is she better?
i mean GODHOG is fun and strong now, and i play him, and i play every other tank as well, but dva is just waifu and the funniest tank ever

so, cringe aside, is she worth to play post-PTR?

i found her 10x more fun but stillShe's going to have crazy DPS and complete control over high ground at all times. You will have to guess when to D.m. to eat ults and not just soak up trash damage. She's still going to be good, maybe even OP but in a different category than she was.
shes gonna be worse imo

Broken Zenyatta?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y-ncOlY6_Gs

Can someone explain what happened here?  or where i can post this to get some answers?Pharah fires 90 rockets/ 40 dmg per rocket over 3 seconds. Which amounts to 1200 dps. Zen heals 300 hps. If the pharah rockets were evenly split over 4 characters they'd probably survive, but it looks like she was close enough that nearly each rocket hit one of your two allies for something approaching 600 dps on them :(
Pharah ult out dps the zen heals at close range
Pharah ult kills people through everything but flat invincibility, it just does way too much dps. Bastion's turret can kill through Transcendence up close too.
Pharah barrage plus reaper does way to much damage for two people to survive with trans.

Keep in mind that reaper does more damage close range focusing one person than doing the same with death blossom. So essentially you were trying to heal through a more powerful death blossom and a barrage at the same time.
Transcendence heals 300hps. They must have had >300dps to outdamage your heals, it's happened to me where my team can focus down maybe one enemy through a zen ult, I've never seen it completely negated like that though. Coordinated reaper/pharah though could definitely outdamage you though
Justice always prevails.
Right on. I'm better for knowing i guess. If there's a ulting Phara 1 meter away I won't bother hitting trans. I'll just take it to the face. 

Thanks for clearing it up for me. 
I didn't see any heals at all though. And my zen looked weird, in transcendence without the ora. 
Well the reaper ult didn't come until later. I guess he could have been shooting from behind too. But I do believe how close Phara was was the determining factor is out damaging my transcendence. 
Nah I just looked through it frame by frame. You can see your junk and hog's health tick up in little bits (which considering all the damage coming is not something orb of harmony or another healer could do). Pharah simply can out dps transcendence when shes focusing fire like that
Can confirm, this happened to me yesterday. I was Zenyatta and my brother was 76, we both got caught in graviton, so I popped my ult. The pharah used her ult and pretty much focused it all on my brother and he died. Pretty frustrating but also, I now know it's something to look out for.

Was diamond for quite a while (3100) then went on to lose more than I win (to 2850) for a few days. I know I belong in this range. But I've noticed a big shift in my gameplay since I started and I want to know what to do.
I'll keep it short. I have started really expecting my team to deal with things that are not my issue and when they don't do it I'll go ahead and help them out to an extent or tell them in comms. But like it's the most minuscule adjustment to how I approach the game. I'm a tracer main so let's say they have a roadhog. I'll poke him when I'm near him but otherwise I'm flanking and going for healers/problems. Let's say our tanks/zen/reaper aren't killing roadhog and he's destroying me. I'll poke him a bit more, tell them, and that's it. Maybe 2 clips instead of 1 or kill him once then go and continue doing what I do before. I just expect a lot out of my team and when it doesn't happen I barely adjust what I do. I'm not a one trick anymore I actually can play every role but I prefer to play tracer when I can. I noticed this a lot when I came to a cousins place for a few days and he was in bronze and I couldn't carry those games alone because I wouldn't deal with anything that wasn't my job too much (I would help just not enough to make me say I carried that game and their roles  or anything) and expect silver players to do what diamonds and me do. Is this play style bad? What should I do? I'm not asking how to solo carry or get better, I watch a lot of VODS and pro players/streamers so I pick up a lot on what they do. I still have to do better stuff in some of my gameplay (going to post a game here soon in a few days for some help on what to do better and I know my aim is below average). The only reason I really got to where I am is my game sense and the speed at which I play it's faster than almost everyone I play with and higher than most people I play with. But it feels like that took a hit with this new mentality I have going on. Tips? That kind of mentality is bad. It's also bad in the real world, at a job for example, fwiw. Using your example, you're playing Tracer and Roadhog is shutting you down. Your team isn't helping you out with him and you can't do Tracer things because of it. You have 3 options now: 

1) Switch to a dps that isn't shut down so harshly by hog, and can maybe use the fact that they have a hog to your advantage. Like Soldier. Farm Tac Visor all game if he doesn't switch and win. 

2) Deal with Hog yourself as Tracer. Not an easy task nowadays after his buff but still doable. Maybe you just know that if Hog dies you can wipe the rest of the team. Farm bomb, use it on him if you have to, but know that him dying is your win condition. If you can't kill him, switch.

3) Stick your head in the sand like an ostrich, and say ThaTs NOt mY jOb. Ignore him as he hooks you over and over again making your team fight virtually 5v6 the whole game. 


Using a real world example; say you walk into a bar and want a fruity, delicious, cold, alcoholic beverage. You ask the bartender "Can I get a 7&7, with 7 muddled maraschino cherries and extra, extra ice please". The bartender looks you dead in the eye and says "sure, but I don't have any ice or cherries right now". You shoot back a "okay..... are you going to have any sometime soon?". He, still looking you dead in the eye says "well the bar back is supposed to get my ice but he's out back smoking a blunt and Sherry was going to get us more ice but her baby daddy showed up yelling so they're hashing it out in the parking lot right now. I would get them but it's not my job to, it's theirs".
It sounds ridiculous because it is, and you're the bartender in this situation. If something's stoping you from doing your job it becomes your job to take care of it because if you don't nothing is going to get done. 
You think too highly of yourself and there is no need to not say "thats not my job". You need to realize that its a team game and even if by the games code, its not your job, it still is. Professionals like Danteh and Sanatraaa are fearless when it comes to roadhogs. They blink through them, 1 clip, blink through again and toss another clip. Majority of roadhogs are dumb and do not have fast enough reaction times for that. I feel that sense dive is now not necessarily "meta" anymore, you will need to change an aggressive playstyle to instead, a distracting playstile. I am not calling you a bad player and not targeting you with this post, majority of players need to realize that its a team game and there are minimal jobs for heros, and major jobs for the team.
More simply put form of what others are saying; If it will help win the game it *is* your job.
I always thought everything is everyone's issue and just whether you can do anything about it or not and also part of climbing is trying to figure out what you can do given when your team mates are doing. 
Exact same here including tracer, bunp for some answers.
Hey thanks a lot for this it's really detailed and helps out. I really have to stop just assuming that someone else is gonna do it and do something about it myself essentially. I'll try to be a little more proactive in my placements today and see how it goes 
You're welcome, and good for you! Good luck on your placements, I hope they go awesome. 
Thanks just finished them! I placed at 2890 and then decided I'd play one only for the game to glitch and not show anything except me being able to click a character (no dc and couldn't leave and couldn't see what anyone else was doing but oddly enough I could hear them) so I lost 50 sr right away which sucks but I'll try to get it back tomorrow. 

Can somebody explain to me how to raise your MMR?
So this season I have realized just how unimportant placement matches are.

I don't even think they should be called "placement" matches because they literally have close to no influence on where you are placed, your MMR is what actually matters. 

So my question is how do I raise my MMR? Does quick play effect my MMR? 

Should I make a new account and try do so my best in QP up to level 25? 

Is there a way to gradually raise my MMR now with my current account that is in gold? 

Any non speculative answers would be great. I want to know for sure. Nobody knows for sure how the system works to calculate MMR/SR (so people won't abuse the system); therefore any answer you are going to obtain will be speculative.

What it is known is that you gain MMR/SR by winning (duh), and that the **amount** you win (or lose, if you lose the match) depends on your performance (as compared with the pooled performance of that hero for that SR range).

So, in short:
> So my question is how do I raise my MMR? Does quick play effect my MMR?

Perform as best as you can and try to win. QP's MMR is used to help calculated Ranked's MMR/SR only the first time you go into Ranked, after that both MMR are separated.

> Should I make a new account and try do so my best in QP up to level 25?

No if that's your only reason. There is no ELO hell, QP's MMR *helps* calculate an initial Ranked SR but after that the system can very quickly identified your current SR.

> Is there a way to gradually raise my MMR now with my current account that is in gold? 

Perform well and try to win. If you do well (get the kills when you are a DPS, heal a lot when you are a healer, die as little as possible in general, etc) you will gain more SR on a win and lose less SR on a lost.
right now you're focusing on raising a number, not actually improving. you get good to raise your mmr, not the other way around. just relax and stop caring about the number rofl
You have to win more games than you lose to raise your MMR. There is no magic trick to get faster MMR gains expect stomping through all your games. 
A second account is never a bad idea, especially if you feel a fresh climb to 25, on heroes and maps that you already have an understanding of, will have better results. You know what? It probably will. Then to have one account (for example) Gold and one account Plat means you can practice more on the Gold account. Lean heroes and maps on the Gold account. Save the Plat for only the Competitive games from that point on.

Again, think in terms of starting at level 1 with your favorite heroes only. Don't worry about filling out the team, just pile up stats. You will be amazed, especially early on, just how many games you win and dominate.  The MMR is still trying to judge exactly how skillful you are. It will figure you out long before 25, but at that point you should be already at a higher level.

MMR is positively correlating with your aim.
Well that's what I've been thinking because on my main account I've let my little bro play quite a bit as well and I think he's even played a few games on comp a couple seasons ago. I feel like starting fresh will be a good thing even if I just end up using one account to practice heroes or something like widow 
I can attest that this works since I've done it myself. On my new account (purchased on sale last Christmas) I did the totally selfish move of only playing heroes that I enjoyed and (more importantly) that I was good at playing. I didn't care if we had a healer or not. I didn't care about defense, tanks, etc... unless I wanted to play that at the time. 

At level 25 did placements. 1200 points higher than original account. I hate to encourage anyone to spend more money, but if you can afford it, or look forward to it being on sale again, it really is fun to have a fresh start.

How to start extending hero pool?
I'm GM and play on a team as a main tank player ( Winston and Rein ), I can also play all tanks other than Orisa which needs some practice. So I can it play tanks. On the team ill obviously still play Winston and Rein but in comp I don't want to just play tanks since it won't really help me pratice, might as well learn something new but need some guide.Play mystery heroes and prioritize escaping and staying alive over getting kills
https://www.random.org/lists/

>genji

>mcree

>pharah

>reaper

>soldier 76

>tracer

>bastion

>hanzo

>junkrat

>mei

>torbjorn

>widowmaker

>dva

>reinhardt

>roadhog

>winston

>zarya

>ana

>lucio

>mercy

>symmetra

>zenyatta

random generate a list and play all those heroes in quickplay regardless of map and side. Try to figure out to play the heroes when you're forced to. See how well it fares. It's quickplay no one cares. But it should start getting you thinking about other heroes differently.
You're ranked higher than me so take my advice with a grain of salt. Since you're already GM, I imagine you'll pick up DPS and Support with just experience over time, just pick up heroes you click with. If you really want to start expanding your hero pool, you'll ultimately have to start using new heroes in competitive, quickplay is really only used to get you familiar with mechanics and basic action combinations. I suggest for DPS Doomfist and Reaper as both operate in an effective range similar to the tanks you play and for Supports, any hero (except Ana and Sym) as they are quite easy to pick up and play. If you care about your current SR or negatively affecting other peoples SR, getting an alt account is the way to go. 
I'm a gold player, and I'm not quite sure if I should be giving you tips because you're so much better at the game than me, but I generally play what I feel like in quick play, and then play the hero I feel like in comp (unless the team comp says otherwise). 

How to counter new Mercy (this is not a guide, it's just my own experience and opinion)
I am one of those hated Mercy mains. After new Mercy ws released on PTR I completely stopped playing on live servers and focused on Mercy on PTR. I was platinum in S5. I didn't do the placement matches in S6 yet. I am waiting for new Mercy to hit live servers. After that I will do placement matches.

From my experience on PTR, new Mercy feels very good to me. I've seen lots of videos on YT regarding to new Mercy being OP. I agree, with the part, where her pistol was way too strong and changed Mercy to combat flying, hard to kill monster. But that has been nerfed pretty fast (though I enjoyed few of those Rambo Mercy moments and it felt both dirty and good together).

As for coutering Mercy, it is as it was before = dive her. She'll die pretty quickly, if shes positioned wrongly and usualy teammates does not react fast enough. If she counters dive by using her new ultimate, than counter-ultimate her by your old reliable hitscans - McCree's and Soldier:76 ultimates. These are the most reliable counters to new Mercy ultimate. She WILL have to fly after being dived, so she will most probably appear in their line of sight, if they are positioned properly, which they should be and they can easly shoot her down from the sky. In chaos of saving her self, Mercy will not fly to towards the sky with super clear mind. There will be a little bit of stress, meaning she will probably do the mistake and will reveal her self for a while for these hit scans to shoot her down. Because we players are only humans (allthough sometimes happens to me while watching my kills cams, that I am playing against inhumans), we cannot have eyes everywhere, we cannot predict all your movement and yes we will do mistake and potentialy will reveal our position while fleeing away from divers or trying to utilize maximum from our new ultimate and we will get punished for this, if you aren't stupid and don't just look for POTG in the match by killing 4+ players at once.

From my experience McCrees and S76s are solo-ulting me as Mercy quiet commonly. So why not save this oppurtunity to shoot me down, while I fly around with my ult on?

Yes I already experienced smart Soldiers and McCrees on PTR who saved their ultimates for me to fly around, or used it maybe mistakenly while I was flying. And yes I went pretty much easly down, even though I was trying to find cover as soon as possible.

So please stop crying on YT and forums, that new Mercy is OP. Just get used to new Mercy and learn again how to counter her as you all did in the past. She's OK the way she is now.  

And thanks Blizzard givings us - Mercy players - finaly a way to play proper combat medic, attending in fights 100% of the time.
So with the newest mercy - the one with the  reduced gun power - how do you play her ult? When you ult, do you find yourself using your pistol, healing, or damage boosting more often?

In which situations would you use one over the other?
Damage boost and heal, depending on how many people are low, if anyone is ulting with you, how much you trust your other healer to pick up a single low tank whilst you damage boost 3-4 teammates (assuming you AREN'T solo healing, as well). I've mostly been flying to position myself just behind a rooftop and putting most of my focus into the grouped up team, diving up and down as people die to rez. Healing 4 or so people during an ult like soldiers (as long as YOU aren't in Los) can easily mean all of them survive and get behind cover, especially if he switches targets because he sees you healing his target
Definitely healing / damage boosting team. Since the pistol isn't way to go. It can have uses, but I tend to boost my team with my ult, not to chase low HP targets and abuse weird angle with flying. Yes it can be also effective, but in this case, battlemercies such as Animetic should have their word. Priority for me is keeping my team alive, so it goes like this: healing > dmg boosting > switching to pistol to rid off flanker (which while flying is almost not needed) or to finish off some1 runing with low HP being out of line of sight from ground team.

Orisa in Silver? (Finally escaped Bronze!)
Placement matches went very well, 6 wins and I got a high enough SR to lift myself out of Bronze! Surprisingly I did well as Orisa, along with Winston, Doomfist and Mercy.

However in one match I lost, a lot of people on comms started blaming me. I looked around and discovered Orisa is not a very popular character. She is often the victim of the blame game in lost matches. I'd therefore like to continue playing as her when the other characters are less effective, but is she able to support herself at such a low rank, and if so what are some tricks I can do to ensure my survival?

Thanks again!I'm an Orisa, Mei, Winston main (this and last season) who is closing in on Diamond. I just wrote this on another Orisa thread but I'll summarize some of the strategies I use when I play her, though I cannot guarantee that these strategies are necessarily good they tended to work well for me.

1. Orisa is heavily team dependent. If you don't have the right supporters (Mercy or Ana), don't bother. Zen&Luc are great for mobile heroes who can run to the closest health pack if need be, but since Orisa moves like a pumpkin, those two are rarely enough to keep you alive. Especially as a solo shielding tank, just don't. If you have a competent Symmetra (throws her shield for you), a Mei, Winston or Reinhardt you can manage fine even without Mercy/Ana. If you have a babysitting Bastion you also can manage though be careful vs Pharahs, Junks or enemy Bastions.

2. Multitasking. Know your cool downs, know when to use your abilities. Shield should always be out. Fortify can be used if you feel an enemy poking (Cree, Dumbfoot, Hog) who can stun or displace. Fortify also can be used when your shield is breaking and you don't have another shield ready (here you want to use Fortify WHILE you have armor). Halt! is to pull fleeing enemies around corners so you can finish them off, or if you are smart you can mess with heroes who have 'instant kill' abilities (Reinhardt pin, Hog hook, Dumbfoot charge for example).

3. Accuracy is nice, but suppressing fire is nicer. Enemies should always feel 'If I try to advance I'll have to run through bullets'. Perma firing means reloading (Orisa has one of the slowest reloads in game) but it also delays many enemy pushes or forces their tanks to 'waste' their protective abilities.

4. Orisa shouldn't stubbornly hold ground. If you feel you're being over run, back off, survive, find high ground and spam fire. Let contesting the point be up to more mobile heroes (Luc is my favorite). Support them from the top and use your Halt! to make it impossible for enemies to hit them. Your Genji on point used deflect and is on cool down with all his skills? -> Halt! to displace the enemies so they cannot hit him. Perma fire the point to force their tank to either NOT chase the contesting team mate (protect his team from your dmg) or risk opening his team to lots of dmg.

4. Dmg Bongo is a supportive ult. Use it to charge your friends depleted ultimates or dmg buff an ulting ally. Don't try to stop an enemy team push with her ult, its impact is too little.

Enjoy and take all advice with a grain of salt, I'm just some dude who likes playing her and am not a master or stuff. :D
Send a friend request to every decent Mercy player you come across. (Or Ana, but there are few good Ana players in Silver.) If you don't have a Mercy/Ana or both Lucio _and_ Zen, don't pick Orisa, especially if you're the only tank. She's a great anchor when the team supports her and makes use of her shield, but it can be _really_ hard to set back up effectively if you die.

I placed in bronze last season and climbed to silver. When I was solo queueing, my Orisa win rate was like 30ish percent. I started making friends and queueing in groups, and Orisa became my winningest hero on the season, ending at 60ish percent.

I will say that even in solo queue, if you have promising-looking heals, Orisa and her shield can be a great way to organize people who aren't on voice comms. 
Estanriel touched on it for a second but you have to remember if you're replacing a rein instead of slowly advancing the shield towards the enemies it moves in bursts. You still have to advance though, don't fall into the trap of constantly shielding the same spot. On attack that is
Two factors to keep in mind with Orisa and they have nothing to do with how good you use her. 

First, she IS wildly unpopular. Much like most of the off meta picks (torb, junk, mei, widow, hanzo) because she is unpopular she is also considered a poor pick and as a result will be the easiest target of blame when things don't go right.   They might just be blaming you for their own failings. 

Second: she interacts with the team composition differently then Reinhardt. (There are a lot of 'she's a crappier version of Rein' opinions out there.) because she's not Rein and she doesn't get a lot of play time, there are plenty of players that don't know how to synergize with her.  There will be plenty of games where None of the team takes advantage of the work Orisa does and as a result the team will do poorly.  On these occasions you'll need to switch, adapt, or handle the call outs yourself to teach your team how to work with you. 

Most if not all of Orisa's Kit assists and improves rather then completes work on her own.  Her fusion cannon does mostly spam/chip damage and softens up targets but is terrible for kill confirmation. Her movement speed keeps her from chasing down her wounded targets.  Her shield is immobile but powerful so team mates need to adjust their positioning to take advantage of it.  Her Halt clusters enemies and pulls them out of position for her allies to target. Even her ultimate does more to buff the rest of her team then it buffs her own performance.  If your team isn't taking advantage of these things then her impact is really hampered.  
Sometimes your team just won't work well with Orisa to the point of needing to switch. 
Cheers! How do you deal with Tracer as Orisa? I can't hit her at all :p
Sorry to hijack the topic, but do you have any advice on Mei? I'd love to get better with her in competitive.
Yeah, this. Orisa is good for a slow and fairly steady push, only allowing you to move every 8s.
With great difficulty. Mobile flankers with small hitboxes are your counter. Anything that can get behind you and chip away at you is a problem. Even if they don't manage to kill you, they are charging their ults.

Be aware of her and expect her, turn around at the slightest suggestion of chip damage from behind, fire ahead of her and use HALT early to force her to recall. She will usually run away.

If she pulse bombs you, use fortify and move away from teammates. If she gets in very close range then try and move backwards through your shield as she's likely moving in to pulse bomb.
The best way to deal with Tracer is to have a McCree behind your shield who is aware that she is coming for you. Or you could babysit Torbs turret, which is enough to scare off Genji/Tracer a lot of the time.
You don't. You rely on your team to deal with her and keep you alive so you can do your job. Sorry for the bad answer.:D
Play around her Recall. When it's on cooldown, Halt her. 
Yeah sure, tons. I can PM you if you want?
I would love that!

Why do I suck with Genji?
200+ hours across all modes as Genji. High masters player.  

Pick up most heroes no problem. Under 10 hours on any given hero and I can reasonably play them at a high-masters level, even pushing-GM level on several.  

But Genji... My most played character, 100+ more hours on Genji than any other character... and I fucking suck at him.  

I don't know what it is. I have 50-70% weapon accuracy as McCree, 45%-50% with Zenyatta, but typically around 35% with him. My right-clicks suck and miss probably 80% of the time, even point-blank. Against any moving target, my left-clicks don't hit either.  

And I feel like I never know what I'm supposed to be doing. Seriously. That's the worst part. I go to flank their Ana and a Zarya is hugging her fucking nuts with bubbles and lasers. I go to my team and there's a Winston diving our backline and I can't do shit to help the healers from that.  

How about the Soldier? If I go to dive him, he throws down a refreshing beverage and 5+ seconds pass before his Zarya bubbles him and I get dumpstered by his team.  

It's so fucking frustrating. By all accounts Genji SHOULD be my best character. I've worked harder at him than anyone. But to this day I play him, at best, like a low diamond player.  

No guides exist on the internet for this. They all tell you what his abilities do. I know what they do. I know all the tactics. I know all the variations of when to deflect in duels as well as to focus an enemy down with a stream of their own teammate's focus fire. I know how to use his blade and when to time it. I don't need someone telling me how to press E.  

Where the fuck am I supposed to be? How do I engage? Am I supposed to wait until I'm in someone's asshole before I right-click? Is there ANYWHERE to watch videos of this shit?My guess is that because he is your most played character, you might possibly have developed some bad habits with him over time, and you may not even notice them because of how used you are to making them. Something that might help is to watch gameplay or streams of high level genjis playing, preferably one that is explaning his decisions and gameplay. During this time, watch their movements and micro mechanics, its easy to skip over and ignore those things thinking "I know all of this, ill focus on when he wipes the enemy team with an amazing dragonblade", but the only reason they were able to get to that spot in the first place is all of the small outplays and advantageous moves they were making leading up to that moment. Don't look for explicit guides, just watch real gameplay from good players and absorb as much from it as you can.
Here are some things that I don't see often that may help when playing genji.

* Know your math: learn to read enemy health bars to know when to dive in and how much you need to finish off an enemy.

Shuriken: 28

Melee: 30

Dash: 50

Dragonblade: 120

Knowing when someone is low enough to dive can be the difference between getting a pick and dying. This also helps when planning dash resets to up your mobility and lethality. This is key when using Dragonblade. Having a dash to switch to the next target will let you add an extra 1 or 2 kills per ult. 

* Always have a way out: similar to saving a blink with tracer, or managing her recall, having an escape as genji is key to surviving. Your escape options usually come down to dash and wallclimb, with reflect to buy you time. Try not to dash and reflect too closely to each other unless you are sure you will get a reset/have a wall to climb over.

* Be slippery: Genji has the second best mobility in the game, second to only Lucio. Double jump over people's heads, dip under ledges and climb back up, dash through enemies and jump back over them to the front. Anything to keep their aim off of you will give you an edge.

* Watch anime. It can inspire you.
You dont watch enough anime m8. Genji requires superior knowledge of the hentai.
Regarding rightclicks - recent patch added custom crosshairs. Get a circle and crosshair, 100 gap, 29 length if I recall correctly - it should be the perfect spacing for the ends of the crosshair to always be on target (genji spread scales such, as you can set it to always know where it will hit). The spread is actually huge, and yes, you have to be up their ass to rightclick. The circle part helps your leading while aiming.
Play Lucio. That was the advice given to me that took me from silver level genji to mid Diamond level Genji (I shortly after stopped playing Genji in favor of Tracer), but there are some unexpected parallels between the two in terms of how they engage targets.
I have a hard time believing you're high masters if you're willingly dashing into soldier if you know he has a valuable cooldown like E. 
stuff like this is what you need to work on with genji if you're gonna play him around there. 
If you know X cd can make it harder for you, play around it. 
This might be a bit jarring, but try to think of what the enemy will do to be in a favorable situation. Mcree will E around you, soldier will try to save E until you dash, most folk won't shoot until you're falling from your second jump, gotta get a feel for what they want to do and use that to your advantage. 
Simple. You need more healing.
Take my advice with a grain of salt (plat player here) Genji is one of my most played heroes so i have a general idea of what to do.

The way i play him is through patience. Wait for your team to engage, and from there simply do damage from a safe distance, don't worry about the kills. Once your team has a pick, communicate with your tanks and chose your target, let them engage them first, at that point it is your job to get up in their face kill the enemy when their focus is on your team mates (I.E your Rein is swinging away and you're off to the side spam right click into that Zarya's face), you always want the enemies focus to be on everyone else, not yourself. That's just a basic thought process from me.
I'm not an experienced genji, but you could try watching VODs of pro players on genji. Pause every few seconds and try to predict what they are going to do and why. This should help with decision making.
Concerning one part of your post, Weapon accuracy should be low on Genji as you should be constantly spamming hallways and chokepoints/doorways with shurikens to get ult charge. If you have 50% acc with genji shurikens you're probably doing something wrong.
I would watch someone like shadowburn's stream and analyze what he is doing and how that differs from what you may be doing. Is he diving Winston when you'd normal back away? Focus on the little things like movement and positioning and decision making rather than the fact that they can get 5 man dragon blades and you can't. Also I feel like whiffing with shuriken is okay cause it's about once you do chunk them down you go in with the shuriken dash melee etc and clean house.
Give us a vod to review 
because u've reached the point where you have to st art thinking critically for yourself and self analysis. there aren't any guides that teach you how to be a better player because it's so macro and general, with the exception of technological upgrades. if you can't find the solution consider getting a coach and or sending a vod into someone who can actaully see your mistakes. i guarantee you though if you watch even one of your own vods you will pick up a lot of problems that are easily fixed
"why do I suck at genji" "play him at low diamond level" 
I wish I was GOOD enough at genji to play him at a low diamond level. 
Same thing is kinda my case, hes my second most played hero. However my main problem with him is dragonblading and aim consistency 
You need a genji fidget spinner and genji weed grinder. I had one custom made and I have never played better. You also need to start smoking tons of CBD and vape on some good 5% nicotine shit. Also do you have any sort of samurai sword mounted on your wall? A trip to Japan can do wonders also. Might sound like a joke but I just realized I actually have and do all of these things hahah
It's completely situational, there's no 'one way' to engage with him. The way to figure out how to play him is to keep his purpose in mind. He's meant to attack the back-line and mop up kills. He's like the janitor or Overwatch. Basically, if the other team is all grouped up then hang back and try and charge your ult with some poke damage. As soon as the teams engage they will begin to split apart and this is when you go after their healers and focussing down the enemies that are low health to get your cooldowns and snowball more kills.
No guide will give you the answer you want just by reading it, you've reached the point where you need to figure out your own weaknesses and work around them.  You can watch pro players to pick up their tricks and habits which will probably help you but the best help will be watching your own vods to find your bad habits.  Maybe you're too predictable in your routes, maybe you're pushing the wrong enemy and not following discords or your other divers.  Are you pushing targets with dangerous cooldowns before they burn them? Make a note of the situations where things go well and again when things don't go well.  What is different between the two?  If the answer is just you didn't hit enough shots/head shots then you simply need to work on aim but most likely there are bigger things to fix like timing, enemy positions or retreat options, your own teammates positions.  Accuracy with a hero isn't everything,  I play support a lot and duo with a  4k Genji most of the time who has one of the worst accuracy stats you'll see ~12% but it's because he spams chokes, doors and sightlines with left click every time he's out of a fight working up his blade and giving the enemy a false sense of where he will push from.  The difference is that even though his accuracy stat is bad he hits the shots that matter in a fight.  Genji is a difficult hero to play when compared to other heroes and relies on smart in the moment decisions which either end in big plays for your team or a kill cam screen for the Genji.  As a support player I truly hate Genji and his potential to burst me out of a fight before I can react but I understand and respect the skill it takes to pull this off consistently just like most of the Genji's I fight in game learn to respect my sleep dart accuracy after 1 or 2 attempts at me.  Genji is as much a mental duel as it is mechanical,  knowing that in some situations making the enemy Ana burn sleep dart and grenade is just as valuable as killing her and backing off rather than fighting takes time and reviewing your own play to see if that won you the fight or not.    
This is how I feel except I don't have many hours on him at all. I honestly feel like only 12 year olds can play genji at a high level. I can play every DPS in the game except gengu. I miss every shuriken and die immediately. My blade nets me half a kill on average. But give me tracer, soldier, pharah, doomfist, anybody else and watch me rock. Even healers.
Maybe you lack the ability to play while aware of your opponents perspective? Sometimes when I play genji, and think I'm hot shit and get killed, in the kill cam I look like a goddamn hoser jumping around in completely predictable patterns in the middle of the fight. 
Because you need to play other characters to know their limitations, strengths and a rough idea of cooldowns.

That's your problem. It isnt your mechanics. But knowing that they've just blown their cc means you have a window of 2-5 seconds to escape or assassinate a target.

Your problem is you dont know the game very well outside of genji.

Source: high masters player. Pharah main.

Edit: for instance, i can pick up genji and play him at diamond level purely for the reasons above. 
to get better with your right clicks try doing botmatches and learn to flick them

i am a shit genji, but he is in the top 5 least played for me and i get 45%-55% accuracy on him against bots

i mean in real games i don't do anything really because my timings are shit...
Best answer here might be VOD review and/or getting a good Genji player to look at your gameplay. We offer both (if you'd like): discord.gg/wawasbotcamp

Stay positive and keep trying to improve 👌🏻
You said you haven't played him much since season 1, how much of the 200 hours were in later seasons? I maimed genji in season 1 as well and the huge nerfs took me tell season 4 to get used to and mastering genji again. Granted I'm only around a 3300 player so not as high as you, but maybe you haven't played him enough to get used to the different play style? 
It honestly sounds like you need more practice landing his basic attacks. They are super important for getting you're enemy low quick, and for genji a low enemy is a very dead enemy. 
I think one genera rule to follow when Winston is the main tank on your team is to just follow and support who he is targeting. I have the same issues as you as a high masters gm except characters come slower in general to me than for you. But this has worked super well for me, even sometimes if I have to dash in without hittting someone just to help Winston finish someone off. Besides that, I'm about as lost as you. Keep track of cds of opponents and that's about all the advise I have.
I'm not masters and I'm a shit Genji so take my advice for what it's worth.  

A skill I've picked up over time is to SLOW DOWN.  Genji excels at destroying low HP enemies.  You're not there to engage, you should poke and run and poke and then assassinate everyone.  That backline Winston?  Don't hard engage on him; stay out of his range and poke at him until he burns his cooldowns THEN jump on him.  

Generally it is better for you to take the high ground and POKE POKE POKE until someone's HP is inevitably low.  Then dive in, get the kill and retreat to high ground again.  You have the most consistent vertical mobility on the battlefield, use it to your advantage.

TL;DR:  BE PATIENT AND STAY UP
my favorite top 500 Genji streamer is Korea10 check him out the way he plays Genji is sick 
I don't have nearly as many hours on Genji as you do (probably around 90-100), but I felt like I had the same problem. I would watch VODs, record gameplay and criticize myself to oblivion, but I couldn't understand what I was doing wrong. What I did was, I started playing more passively. Instead of diving in from the get go, I played Genji as more of a cleanup character rather than a diver. After a while I started gradually stepping up and being more aggressive. What I noticed was I developed a lot of bad habits. I wasn't engaging properly, my target prioritization was super off, I wasn't disengaging when I should be, overcommitting to a target Just to get mangled by the enemy team, etc., and taking that step down to a more passive playstyle helped me correct most of those bad habits. 
It could be worse. You could suck in general like me instead of just sucking with one hero. 
Get some people to do VOD reviews of your Genji plays and point out your mistakes. Probably the best thing you can do.   

I'm absolute garbage at Genji, but one day my boyfriend literally stood behind me and told me what to do and I fucking wrecked face and got POTG. (QP obviously, not ranked).  

Genji is one of those heroes you need to position yourself for. Having someone watch me and tell me what I *should* be doing helped immensely. 
Being a close GM player, I sincerely doubt this is the case, but let me tell you my issue with Genji (full disclosure I am no where near as good as you claim to be, just maybe food for thought?)

You talk about missing shots, even up close, where I feel Gen is most effective. Is it possible you are not accounting for travel time for the projectiles? Genji throws, not shoot, so his fire mechanic is quite different than say, S76.

Again we are two vastly different skill levels just thought I'd throw it out there.
If you have better accuracy with Zenyatta and Mccree you could take into account that you generally keep your distance more with those two heros. It can be more difficult to aim at moving targets the closer you are to them which is one of the reasons I rarely play Genji lol. 
Low accuracy on Genji isn't necessarily a bad thing. Spamming corners and chokes in case an enemy pops through is usually a good idea if you haven't got anything else to do at that moment, and there's no punishment for it. 
You suck at Genji because youre playing Genji 
A good Genji is a patient Genji.

If you watch the best guys out there play, they poke and harass forever until the moment is just right then they make their move. 
I'm a piece of shit so I one tricked genji to GM, but this is my throwaway so I don't care I'll offer the best advice I can. For your first concern consider practicing projectile characters more. You have the mechanical skill to be in masters, so I can only assume your main problem is knowing when and when not to use your primary or secondary fire. Also, movement and positioning with Genji is critical. Every time a new map dropped I would just load it in and just climb around in it just to get a feel for everything and know my way around.  
  
The thing with Genji is that he's the character with the highest skill cap in the game (which is why you're masters with tons of hours in Genji but still feel clueless), but if you play him right you just win. Playing him right isn't even landing your shuriken well, it's just about making good decisions. Watch some pro player footage. One thing you'll notice is their time management. Their main focus is charging their ult and prioritizing everything else behind it. This ties in a lot with map familiarity, finding vantage points with Genji where you can build ult charge temporarily before engaging, and having areas in mind you know you can disengage to. One thing you'll see good Genjis do is almost NEVER engage with blade dash because you'll have no way out.  
  
Also, having the right mentality about Genji is important. It's necessary to be able to pull off 1v1s in situations where it's either fight or die but Genjis kit is built around mobility for the purpose of surviving, and constantly taking up 1v1s is not only a complete waste of your kit but also a two way street of either wasting time on one person or wasting time on getting yourself killed. As Genji you should constantly be trying to finish off kills, identifying the easiest characters to build ult charge off of even if it doesn't end in their death (Roadhog).  
  
Typically here's what I do in games. Say it's KOTH; my team and the enemy team meet at the point. I do a soft engage, spam some shuriken reflect projectiles back while disengaging up to a vantage point. For soft engages I usually set it up to where there's not enough heat for me to need to blade dash out, I can back up while facing them to get to a safe spot. Once I see enough lit players I drop into their backlines inflict as much damage as possible, and blade dash out while trying to hit some fools the process. Also, say we win a team fight. As Genji it's always a good idea to have a spot near their spawn where you can build ult charge from while they're coming out. The ship to the left of the anubis spawn near the first point is a good example of this as well as the building in front of the second spawn, route 66 has this as well near all spawn points. A lot of people will argue against me on that saying it's risky, but if you want to the ridiculous Genji you know you are deep inside you have to constantly stay productive and pop as many ults as possible. Seagull highlight reels aren't him getting team kills fanning shuriken.  
  
So yeah. Sorry for the length but hope this helps.
Something that's helped me move out of high bronze into mid silver (And still climbing) has been watching qwark28's Genji VOD reviews.  

I'd imagine there are other people, but he's the first person I've found who really goes into serious depth & touches on all the little things that make the big plays possible. He's also a high level player who's reviewed a wide range of skill levels, so even though you're obviously better than me you probably would still gain something from it.
VOD.
Having the mindset that you need to carry with genji hurts you and your team in a very bad way. Genji is only as good as his team, so you need to get rid of the "i need to carry this"-mindset and focus more on the openings that your team makes for you. The way that you are describing your playstyle sounds more like the OP Genji days, where you could abuse his ult way more because you got i so much faster. The modern genji i more reliant on his team because people have gotten better and they are more used to playing vs. genji so it is really hard to just flank and take out their healers in a 1v1 

I suggest you watch this video with the pro player Tviq where they go over the playstyle and mindset a genji player should have in general and how to be effective with him. https://youtu.be/NhlDiWXr0CI 
What ive learned with genji is all about game sense. Know whos around you at all times, always save your deflect whenever your being directly shot and know when your gonna die if you dont deflect, i usually use my deflect only SOMETIMES for offensive moves, like deflecting a widow shot to another person, rehinhardt firestrike to a group of enemies. What i mean by sometimes is because i use it more defensively than offensively.

Heres a good example of when to use it offensively. 
Used my dash to initiate on a soldier, im 1v1'ing him, doing fine, got an advantage. (Bait out his helix, by standing near a wall, or if youve played enough you can read people decently) use my deflect to shoot it at his feet, finish the kill. 
(If anyone else were to come during the middle of that fight, besides anyone who you counter, which discludes Mcree, Winston, Zarya, Mei. ) unless you can finish the kill, and use the extra dash to get out, your good. If not, just remember to always have an escape route. 

Heres a Bad example. 
Used my dash to initiate soldier, hes low, and mcree is comming to help. He just hit me with his helix. I can 1v2 with low enemies right 200 hours right? Just deflect mcrees flash and im good. (Here is where your more likeley than not to put yourself at risk of dying) unless you get the kill on mcree by delfecting flash and somehow not die, you good. But you would want to just run back to an escape route, and then use deflect while your backing up, or doing whatever you need to do to run away. 

Another part is knowing who are the enemies near you, dont initiate on a zarya, who COULD have a hitscan or another tank near her to Reck you.

The best tip i got with genji from a friend in high teir sr (gm) was,
"Whenever the enemy team pushes in, flank behind, get the stragglers, save your deflect for an escape, and kill fast"
 
Thats all i got, good luck!
I sometimes flex to genji for my team 4K average since I play him a lot on other accounts (highest around mid masters) and I was having the same trouble you have.  Honestly sometimes you just have to play more passive or just follow winston wherever he goes then go ham when you have blade
ITT: masters player getting advice from plats.

Here is my low diamond advice: the best genji players know when to swap off genji. im sure you havent sucked every game you used him. take note of team comps he abuses (and complements) vs when he gets shut down, and learn to recognize when to swap.
Watch your own vods. You will notice your mistakes and it will help you improve immensely.
It's not direct videos, but watching Seagull can probably be pretty solid, he'll talk about why he's making the decisions he's making or point out what his mistakes were. In general watching pros and trying to figure out why they're engaging/disengaging is the best way I can think of to train this. 
Top priorities:
1. Survive.
2. Distract.
3. Set up great blades.

From ShaDowBurn
Genji takes lots of practice. I'm in mid gold, so completely average. It took me 30 hours of playing him to start getting proficient enough to confidently pick him in competitive on a regular basis. You are high masters, which means you must be up to the standards of the top 5% of players in the world. It will take masses more practice to get good at Genji for you compared to me, or at least I mean masses more practice for you to be a viable Genji at the level you play at. I'm on console, so it's easy for me to say this, but you're on pc I assume, so you may not be able to do this. Get a second account where you play mainly Genji. That's what I did. I started out playing with bronzes on my second account. I quickly climbed to silver, and now I am at the level where I can play him in comp on my main account, because my smurf and my main are at similar srs. 
I am plat so u can pass the comment nw.

But, u r distracting ppl. I dont know how u measure the "sucking" meter.

But that zarya didnt get a 40 energy from her bubble. Tye soldier didnt cash he heal for ult charge.

Ur team could have engage while soldier have no heal and zarya have no proj bubble.

Sounds fine unless u r looking for the shine gold medal instead of the win rate.

Any way u need to provide VODs.
Watch pokelawls on twitch. 
Have you tried ghost swift?
[deleted]
Also, you seem rather frustrated. It may be a good idea to take a break from playing genji for a bit, just to get back into the right mindset. We all go through phases of inconsistency and uncertainty when climbing the ladder. What is most important is that you do what you can to get past the mental block. Think of times in the past where you felt optimistic or confident in your genji gameplay, that is the best mindset to go after.
>My guess is that because he is your most played character, you might possibly have developed some bad habits with him over time, and you may not even notice them because of how used you are to making them.

That's an intriguing thought. Tracer is by far my most played hero and one of my earliest. With her I learned almost everything I know just by playing and developing instincts. With Winston (my most recently "mastered" character I did a good amount of reading and watching VODs before really putting time one him. I feel like of the two Winston is more refined for me because of how I learned, and I'm curious if there's bad habbits I need to unlearn on Tracer.
This. Cannot stress this so much. Bad habits develop without you noticing. I'm a gm genju player, and fixing your bad habits by watching pro plays really do make a difference. Also get rid of that self centered genju attitude if you have one. 
Like I said, 200+ hours. I know the damage of each ability. I know how much hp every hero has. I have good movement when in actual fights.  

What I lack is a good idea of how to engage -- and even disengage -- in a fight. I probably chase after people with 5hp too often when they might be a lost cause and I might be smarter off just re-acquiring a new target. And once I go in, I usually stay in the fray like a brawler until I die.  

Even in my good games -- where I brawl for 2-3 kills before dying -- every re-engagement starts in front of the enemy's faces (or from a flank they saw me walking towards). I probably don't disengage to a flank route and walk around them to another flank route is my thought process here, but I don't know what tells me I should disengage.  

I just killed a dude and have a dash reset with half HP. Do I use it to disengage to team? Do I use it to disengage behind enemy lines for future flanks? Do I use it to spawncamp the mercy? Or do I use it to dive into the center to go on the RH that my team is working on? I usually pick the lattermost or formermost, but knowing which is correct... dunno. 
When you look at somebody's Health part it's broken up into those little segments, do you know exactly how much health each of those segments represents?
I read manga and shit. I'm not a full-on weeb (I don't pretend like I'm going to learn Japanese) but I commit enough that I shouldn't be so fucking bad at it.
Whenever someone asks Kayuun how to be good at Genji in his stream, he says to watch lots of anime. So this must be the right answer. 
Just tested this, 29 is accurate. Will give this a try. Very neat idea. Thanks!
I am a lucio main and am a very aggressive wallskimming lucio and poster to r/luciorollouts. I probably play him at a GM level and I win FFA's with him.
> I have a hard time believing you're high masters if you're willingly dashing into soldier if you know he has a valuable cooldown like E. stuff like this is what you need to work on with genji if you're gonna play him around there.

I don't dash into Soldier. I pretty much never dash to engage unless I'm extremely confident I'll get the kill for a dash reset (so.. a solo staggered mercy, or someone with 10% hp, etc) so I can escape.  

I'll just go after Soldier from flank and he'll drop E, so I'll walk away. I see Mercy, toss a left-click, maybe 1-2 hit her and then she gets a Zarya bubble and Zarya begins lasering me. I retreat to my frontline and Mercy starts healing me. A winston jumps down onto our healers. I try right-clicking him once or twice, but he's dancing along the shield and this seems hopeless and a waste of my time as Genji. So I start walking out and head back to go after their Zenyatta that I see is alone. I engage him with a deflect > dash > RMB+Melee combo and gib him. Then I go after their Mercy behind them, only to find that I'm now engaging into a 1v5 because my entire team died while I was faffing about. Now I dash out of dodge and grab a healthpack and hide until my team is ready to re-engage... etc.  

In that scenario, sure, I'd probably go even kill the Zen on respawn while I waited for my team, but this generally seems to be how it goes. My team consistently loses the 5v5/5v6 because I take too long to get anything actionable going. I don't identify the crucial opportunities for kills, and so I end up flailing around trying to kill people from full HP. They often get peeled for, and I don't know how to deal with that.  

Is my timing off? Should I be verifying their tanks are engaged with my frontline before I go for the initial mercy? Or am I doing a fine job by baiting the Zarya bubble? Do I just disengage, wait 5s, and re-engage the same healer? What about that Soldier that is on highground that I **know** isn't using his E but nobody else is on him? 
Hah! Simple.
Or a Symmetra Shield Gen. Heard it works wonders for Tracer Mains...
> The way i play him is through patience. 

Bingo!

I love Doomfist but I felt he was chronically underpowered. Then someone mentioned Doomfist is not a vertical character, he should stay and think horizontal. And all of a sudden I started understanding combos better, no more suicide dives, stick to cover, no wasting my uppercut. Run up to enemy, slam, half punch, gone. It sometimes feels like a drag, a waiting game. But my gameplay as Doomfist got a lot better.

Genji is a lot of the same, except he's a lot more mobile so you should have a bit more maneuvering space. 
This is what I lack. I'm a super aggressive player (I do really well with Winston for example, because I can play him super aggressive and not be heavily punished for it). I probably learned some bad habits playing Winston a little too much in S5, thinking I have to make plays for my team and feeling bad when I don't. So I started playing reckless in Genji which only made the situation worse. Thanks for this reminder 
I appreciate teh words, but I really do need something more than this. Like I said, I play him at maybe a low diamond level or so. I'd like to be able to play him at a GM level. It isn't something as simple as more patience or more sticking with or without the team. There's something deeply fundamental that I'm doing wrong in my engages, disengages, and re-engages.  

I find that either I'm the first to die or that I'm the last to die (eg, all 5 are dead and I'm still fuicking about grabbing a healthpack behind their lines).
Any recommended videos?
Ayyy, that means my garage accuracy is okay?

It isn't, but I'ma tell myself that so I feel a bit better about being garbage 
Hey, you're right!
Making my own vods is likely the best solution as well. Not really any tech upgrades available. Everything is pretty top-of-the-line, so it's definitely a personal skill issue.
It wasn't a jab at anyone below Diamond. If you were a Platinum player and put 200 hours into a hero and he was your 6th best you'd still know what I mean!
Some good thoughts. I probably do need to play more passively, but if my team doesn't get anything actionable going by themselves (they're fighting a 5v6 while I am waiting...) I end up just waiting until they all die.
> For your first concern consider practicing projectile characters more

Zen is one of my mains, and I regularly tear apart Tracers in 1v1 duels as him. But perhaps it's Genji in particular I need practice with. His firing speed is slower than Zen's and so I can basically never hit anyone with more than 1 of my LMB if they are moving.  

With all due respect, because you OTP'ed to GM, you keep saying crap like this:  

> Also, movement and positioning with Genji is critical.   

and  

>  Playing him right isn't even landing your shuriken well, it's just about making good decisions.  

This has no value to me. Movement and positioning are also crucial for Zen or McCree, both of which I play at a M/GM level. Where am I **supposed to be** as Genji?  

I'm always either:  

1. Engaging first, and dying.  
2. Engaging first, and having to disengage fruitlessly.  
3. Engaging second, getting a kill, and now seeing it's a 1v5 because I was too slow to make an impact on the game.  
4. Engaging second, getting a kill, and winning a fight we probably would have won anyway.  

I never feel like I am the playmaker that I see other Genji's being. I always feel like I am being totally useless: winmore'ing when we're winning, and losemore'ing when we're losing.  

> Every time a new map dropped I would just load it in and just climb around in it just to get a feel for everything and know my way around.  

I do this as well. I also play every map for hours in custom games practicing shit like lucio rollouts so I have a very intimate understanding of exact map layouts, but this says absolutely nothing to me about **when** I should engage, **how much I should commit**, etc.  

> As Genji you should constantly be trying to finish off kills  

**How?** Do I identify who my team is going on, wait for them to get low, LMB/Dash + RMB/Melee + Dash out? Do I shoot LMB's at them from a long distance the whole time (giving away my location)? Do I dash in and start trying to RMB them while my team focuses them? **I have no idea how to strike a balance between "ninja waiting in the shadows" and "actually assisting in the teamfight."**   

And my ults aren't even that good. When I ult, it's extremely likely that I'll dash > ult > dash > swing (kill) > die. When is the correct time to ult? I make sure my team is engaging them, but it doesn't seem to matter. It's like they just ignore my team for the 1 second it takes to kill me and then resume the 5v5.
Awesome. Can you give me a link, please?
Perhaps that is the case. Though, I often feel like I'm unimpactful (we'd lose or win regardless of my contribution) if I am relying too much on the team to make openings. Maybe I am just wrong.  

Will check out the video. Thanks!
There's no difference between ghost dashing and just dashing really fast. It does not give you an additional dash. Watch Arikadou's videos and count the dashes. It's all fluff no value.
You're full of it
If you were that good at gengu you wouldn't be in gold. There is such a thing as being good at a hero WITHIN a bracket. My buddy is the same, he has REALLY good gameplay with genji in gold, but he's at 100 hours and not improving with him at all. 

It's hard to grasp because your moves and everything look the same. In gold you get a good ult and get a 4 or 5k right? Shadder2k could do that literally every minute if he were playing in gold. If you played gengu with gms, I doubt you would even get to use more than one dragonblade and they would shoot the piss out of you before you landed it. 
This is the best answer. Take at two weeks off from Genji, then do some practice on Deathmatch before diving into comp. It should shake your bad habits and frustration. 
> It may be a good idea to take a break from playing genji for a bit

I have barely touched him since S1... but it is because of this. The bad habits aren't going away.  

Sometimes I feel like an untouchable rockstar as him, but that's typically only vs bad teams.
Genji is not a brawler who can fight for a long time doing massive damage (think doomfist). Genji is an opportunist. Take advantage of things like low health enemies, enemies with drawn attention, discord orbs, etc. 

> I just killed a dude and have a dash reset with half HP. Do u use it to disengage?

90% of the time, yes. Unless you are certain you can get another kill with that dash, or you have support behind you, disengaging is a much better idea. I wouldn't take on a second engagement with less than 150HP alone. With that pick established, coming back with full health with a favored 6v5 is better than risking death and the resulting 5v5.
I'm not an expert by any means, but I've noticed a lot of success just diving in and diving right back out. People will turn and focus in on you after you jump in and pick someone. This is the most dangerous time for you and your chance for continued success compared to their ability to kill you is low. It may seem like a waste to be jumping back out. But the thing that often happens here is that they're looking behind themselves, away from the rest of your team, and using their abilities. This sets up your team for a great fight on a team that has cooldowns running and isn't looking the right way.
stop fuckyn diving everywhere and everyone (except if u have a winston and a dva) ! genji is not a brawler he is a finisher, you should be farming that ult and engage healers with your sword ....! during a fight u just have look for low hp targets wich u can dash melee combo !look for wierd angels to be annoying, dont just DIVE IN THERE like there is no tmrw ... u need patience with him , he is a fuckyn ninja ... not a butcher with an axe (see rein) u wait for your opportunity and strike where they are most vulnerable! cmon man its not that hard ...
25
Clearly, then, the answer is simple: go Full Weeb. 
Your hesitance holds you back. 
That's all well and good but I think we are all missing the main problem. Your waifu is probably shit and your taste in manga is bad and you should feel bad. If you really want to be better at genji, you're going to need to watch all of Naruto. To hit t500 you'll need to fully commit by responding to teams with "dattebayo", running like a ninja when you work out, and practice your hand seals for a minimum of 2 hours a day.
Just checking that you are using this while playing?

[Essential Genji Equipment](https://www.etsy.com/uk/listing/533587270/overwatch-genji-costume-for-halloween?ga_order=most_relevant&ga_search_type=all&ga_view_type=gallery&ga_search_query=genji%20costume&ref=sr_gallery_1)
Im actually impressed you responded with an honest answer m8. Gl with the hentai
Start screaming poorly understood Japanese into the mic, and invest in a voice changer that makes you sound 10.
You might want to adjust the gap to length ratio - it leads accurately on the furthest bots on the firing range, but you might find better results on a smaller circle
Not to be that guy, but crosshairs is personal preference. I feel like paying too much attention to that wonky crosshair will do more harm than good. 
I'm also a Lucio main with most time on genji whaddya know.
Omg how have I never heard of that subreddit!? 
I never knew that subreddit existed.

And goddamn it feels like watching Titanfall 2 or Quake clips of veterans who are literally flying around using the wallride/bunnyhop system and 7283010° quickscoping people from across the map.

I play a decent Lucio but wow, that subreddit made me know that I am a mere filthy casual in the presence of gods.
Actually fighting a soldier with E is fine. You just need to chunk half his health first by surprise or by landing left click into shift melee. From there you can spam right clicks at head height level and win that duel easily. 

The reason master Genji players are hard stuck in master is because they play too scared. This isn't an organized scrim where you can poke for your ult. Your team isn't going to stay alive long enough, and the enemy team isn't going to be coordinated enough to focus you. Constantly press W, constantly look for solo picks. 
Perhaps record a game and request a review in this sub-Reddit?
Seagull/shadder2k/shadowburn are a few you could search for genji play!
Garages are generally pretty big, it would be hard to miss them
You seem like a very agreeable person.
Then the problem lies with your team. As Genji, you're not supposed to lead the initiation. That's why you have tanks. You're just there to follow. Once the engagement starts, then you can go off and do what you need to do (killing supports, cleaning up kills, etc.), but never try and lead the initiation by yourself. You're just gonna get melted the instant you reach the backline.
> With all due respect, because you OTP'ed to GM, you keep saying crap like this:
> 
> 
> 
>     Also, movement and positioning with Genji is critical.
> 
> 
> 
> and
> 
> 
> 
>     Playing him right isn't even landing your shuriken well, it's just about making good decisions.
> 
> 
> 
> This has no value to me.

  
  
Okay, sorry I skimmed over some areas because I knew my response was long and I wanted to capitalize on the importance of building ult with Genji. So positioning and movement with Genji is going to be otherworldly in comparison to say a McCree for example, whose mobility is very limited and universal. With McCree his positioning is in the back to anti-flank, pop off kills in a safe area, and be near vantage points for his ult. When you get in a combat situation with McCree your movements amount to rolling and strafing universally against all characters, but with Genji it's completely different.  
  
Genji's movements are adaptive to the hero you're facing. Say you land three shuriken headshots on a Mercy and hop down to finish her off and when you do Rein comes after you. Movement for battling a Rein is as simple as jumping in the air and fanning him and landing and jumping from spots where his hammer isn't going to be. Against a Zarya the movement is different. If you jump a lot like you do with Rein, you'll be moving slow enough for her to track you, so unpredictable movement literally within touching distance is what you'd do with her, so close that she can't grenade you but moving around her so erratically she can't track you. Against a Winston, you would keep distance while headshotting with shuriken and as soon as he goes in the air you blade dash to the area he jumped and fan him at low health. Obviously landing your hits is immensely important but if you don't have your movement down with Genji then you'll be fucked whether you have expert aim or not.  
  
> Where am I supposed to be as Genji?  
  
  
> I have no idea how to strike a balance between "ninja waiting in the shadows" and "actually assisting in the teamfight."  
  
Alright so I'm gonna use a video for this. We're gonna watch FaZe ShaDowburn, who is just a fucking fantastic Genji.  
  


Timestamp | What ShaDowburn's Doing
---|---
[0:00-0:26](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bfA25tWDD30) | ShaDow's poking spamming shuriken from a vantage point. He stays as "ninja waiting in the shadows" because he knows if he engages he'll direct the entire enemy teams attention towards him, at which point he'll be picked off and his team will be down one on the ensuing team fight. By landing decent hits with his shuriken he's built nearly 40% ult by the time he decides to engage and dash for the kill on Rein.
[0:34](https://youtu.be/bfA25tWDD30?t=34s) | Notice the fight with Zarya here and his positioning. Grenades flying right past him.
[0:56-1:21](https://youtu.be/bfA25tWDD30?t=56s) | Here he goes right back to his vantage point, picking up easy damage on healers. Notice his focus on Ana. After his finish on Rein he went right after her, when they were heading to the choke he was aiming for her, and if it weren't for the McCree ulting, he would've gone after her first. Ana is a huge toon priority, because if you don't get her out of the way fast she can sleep you right before you're about to make a big play, she's easy to kill as Genji, her ult is powerful, and she's a healer. Also notice that before McCree flips his ult, ShaDow is spamming shuriken into Rein's shield. A lot of Genji's don't do this and I have no fucking clue why. You have a giant square of ult charge in front of you and your team needs that shield down. Always go for the shield.  
[1:45-2:48](https://youtu.be/bfA25tWDD30?t=1m45s) | This is one of the points where you would not want to be the "ninja waiting in the shadows" and be "actually assisting in the team fight", when a team fight is already happening. Notice how he didn't engage with his blade dash and uses it to escape here. Fast forward about 20 seconds. He immediately sets back up to probe the enemy team, and when a tracer comes in for a 1v1 he disengages for a different vantage point. Tracer is an easy Genji kill but going back to what I said in my first comment, that situation is a two-way street. He can waste his time dishing it out with her and risk having his team be down a person for when that enemy team pushes in or he could play it smart, think about his team, and remember what's important: building his ult and surviving long enough to fuck shit up with it. Instead only engaging her when his team is right beside him to back him up. The Genji's who are playmakers are the one's who do this. Also, when Zarya throws her ult. You ALWAYS wanna dash through that shit. (Keep watching if you wanna see how he engages rein, uses, combos, and flips his ult)
[3:52-6:00](https://youtu.be/bfA25tWDD30?t=3m52s) | Again, going back to what I was saying in my first comment, as soon as a team fight is done he goes right back to building that ult. Take note of his patience during this team fight and his positioning regardless of the two-three ults they use. Also notice how quickly he gets his ult just by poking and popping off a few blade dashes when the occasion arises. When he's not going in for a finish he's disengaged enough and moving around enough to where he's not drawing attention to himself. Also, every Genji pro is always gonna blade dash the sky when they ult because of the cool down reset and for the easy nanoboost. Aaand after the team fight it's right back to their spawn to build ult.   
  
You'd be doing yourself a HUGE disservice if you didn't watch more videos like this. I would also recommend recording and playing back footage of your own gameplay, because it's so much easier to gauge out when you made a mistake somewhere afterwards and it's so much easier to get rid of bad habits.  
  
Again, sorry for the length but I hope this helps.



  

Absolutely!

https://www.youtube.com/user/qwark28/videos

He also includes some videos discussing positioning with Genji on certain maps, as well as some basic aiming tips.
Helps you move around, get out of a sticky situation.
This is definitely true. One time I like 4-stacked into QP with a buncha friends who would probably be in bronze and I got potg something like 8 times in a row, every single game was like a 4+ kill dblade and none of them were even assisted by Zarya.  

But put me into a game of even diamonds and my Genji isn't doing that.
I've taken about 9 months off from him. I play him maybe 5 hours every competitive season for a solid ~30% winrate and then I re-shelf him. I haven't played him as my main since S1.
Do you tilt easily? Because if you do he is probably the most unforgiving hero to be playing when you do make a mistake causing you to get even more upset with yourself. 


Or a health pack if one is around.
I think this is probably some good advice. I've noticed before as McCree that a Tracer that pokes my backline for 1s and then recalls forces me to watch backline for 10s+ to compensate... the asymmetry in resource commitment (time/attention) is big.
NANI?!  

I'm already reading OP manga. Don't worry. If a pirate hero is ever released, I will be the king of the pirates! It'll be all according to keikaku...
I've seen all of naruto... should I swap to being a genji main?
This is the best advice.
This seems like a good idea if I can just muster up the effort to hate myself enough to show you guys how shitty I am at Genji. Yeah. I'll do this.
Yeah that's what I figured, sigh. I hate streams. Was hoping there was something more concrete, like specific videos or something, but I guess I can just watch a ton of streams.
So if I see that happening I should just swap off of Genji? What about OTP's?
Don't apologize for the length at all. This is EXACTLY the type of thing I was going for in making this thread. Thanks a ton!  

A couple of things about his play seem like they'd be mistakes to make at my aim skill level (I have pretty good aim but this kind of pro-level aim is totally beyond me atm), but it's a great reference point. You're right about the sheer amount of ult charge he gets.  

I really have no idea how his ults are so amazing, though. He plans his entire ult far better than I do. I get 1-2 kills and then look around having no idea where anyone is.
I was thinking that it sounds like you're playing genji on your main account right? Sounds like you should make a new account to just play genji, that way you dont have to play against zaryas or winstons who have gotten very good against high level genjis, and you can instead improve your basics. As you get better you can climb and learn to deal with better and better players while only playing genji.
No. I usually shotcall for 4+ hours at a time without tilting. I don't rage at teammates and if someone is toxic I just mute them and continue shotcalling instead of arguing.
One piece is so fucking good. 
What about Pirate Torb?
That depends, that's only one step. Who is your waifu, how good are you at hand seals, and with what frequency do you use "Dattebayo!" In every day conversation?
Jesus if you play at a diamond level it can't be that bad
You're trying to get better man, i don't see how anyone worth paying attention to can judge you for wanting to improve. if it's shit gameplay that's even better. you'll get to the bottom of things
 Seagull has a YouTube channel with a ton of Genji videos posted from his streams that way you don't have to watch an entire stream.  A lot of times he calls out his mistakes and explains his thinking on why he does what he does which is nice.
[Here's a video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9pkshLAM5cA) of Shadder that I think shows some good decision making, namely the first fight. Notice how he stays at a relatively safe distance from the enemy team for the entire fight. Once the kills start coming in he doubles back to chase down the Soldier, who he say running behind his team. After this he just joins his team and dives the Mercy. After she's dead there's a moment where he dashes up in the air and it seems like he's considering ulting, but he makes the decision not to because A) his team has a huge advantage and B) there are only two tanks on the point, so it's a waste using it on then. He then dives the Zarya but gives up on chasing her because he knows the enemy respawns will be coming in. 

It's a good little fight to see how good Genji players manage their abilities and decisions. Genji is undoubtedly the hardest character to play in the game because he needs to be keeping track of everything to give himself the best advantage he can, while also being mechanically demanding.
Shadders youtube channel is excellent 
Try to communicate with your tanks, ask them to lead the fight. If they absolutely can't (if the tank player doesn't have a lot of experience on his role/is filling etc.) you have two options:
1. You can swap roles with them and play a tank. Winston, for example, has a very similar playstyle as Genji, but his larger HP pool allows you to lead the initiation. Won't bore you with that 'cause you're high Masters, you know the game well.
2. You can swap to a ranged DPS and play at your teams' pace. I'd recommend Pharah, you can play her in a very similar fashion as Genji, and since they're both projectile heroes you won't have those awkward moments when your brain is still switching skillsets from projectile to hitscan.

Honestly, I'd talk to the tank either way. Sometimes is very awkward to fill on a role you have little to no experience on, and if that's the case and you can swap roles, you'll be doing the kid a great favor.
The blade dash in the air has always helped me kind of gauge out where everyone is as well before I go in for the kill. You wanna blade dash up directly over them and blade dash down immediately on top of someone, pick them off as quickly as possible to get that dash back up. If you have the balls to get your gameplay analyzed Gordan Ramsay style consider sending a video to Unit Lost's way, he gives really fantastic advice. 
Do people really pay 40$ just to learn new heroes?
I'm here to back the notion that One Piece is an absolute EPIC. 

In the true sense of the word epic. None of that exaggerating bullshit. It's an epic.
Was largely a joke, but yeah. It'll be pretty fucking bad when my opponents are masters-level and shitting on me all game.
You can't really be taught how to genji per se, but if you can watch how they play you'll learn more.
What is his youtube channel? When I google it I get a lot of random people uploading s1 clips of him.
plenty do I'm pretty sure
why do you think they don't care about smurfing? 
Why do you assume he plays PC?
I bought a 2nd account, learning genji was one of the reasons I bought it.
I used to have unnatural for the show. Thought it was just some generic shounen bullshit. Then I decided to give it a few episode chance. Instantly addicted and watched like 500 episodes to catch up in a matter of 2-3 months. Every second of my spar time was One Piece and I had a broken ankle in college so I had lots of spare time.
Was more referring to you being embarrassed to post diamond level play here when you know most of us aren't that high
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCyjAJHEzFrwtZ7dPIjMz4SA

Here's a link to his channel. He plays soldier too but his genji is widely regarded as one of the best in the world. 
PC players might not realize that you can create additional profiles on console. I only know from reading it here.
What's the difference? 
Because they're playing comp? /half s
Because anyone worth anything in this game does. Console is irrelevant
Nothing.
?
Console is like 1/3 of the player base.
And0% of the pro scene

What character do you think I should learn if I like Lucio, Symetra, and Mercy?
The three characters in my title are easily my favorite characters in the game. Lucio is like playing a completely different game within a game, Mercy is a reliable and go-to effective juggernaut, and I really enjoy my personal performance with Symmetra.

These characters all have a few things in common outside of the fact they are supports, things I have come to realize about myself as an Overwatch player.

They don't require super precise aim (a skill that, despite consistent practice on soldier or tracer, I am too panicky in actual fights to use properly).

They can choose to get up with the team, or hang back and preserve themselves, giving them flexible play style variety.

They heal themselves.

These features kind of define the type of character I've come to enjoy, but I'm looking to expand my pool past support characters to be ready for the incoming Mercy buff that will cause non Mercy mains to insta lock Mercy from support mains like myself.

I'm not much of a tank, as my 3rd most played character is Rein and I honestly can't figure out how to be useful there. I find tanking stressful, and would much rather be healing.

I expect a lot of suggestions to play Mei, as she fits a lot of my criteria, and I will give her a fair go, but I want to hear if anyone else has some useful advice on character choice, including any tips I could use to acclimate myself into a successful learning pattern.Winston has easy mechanics, and has a protective bubble. He can either dive enemies or stay back to protect support from flankers.
Zen, even without good aim you can spam shots in the general direction of where they're coming from, unless you're at a level where tracer Genji and Sombra are always after you..


Roadhog might be good, just practice again easy bots a little to get the rhythm of it.


Orisa w would be good, but if the enemy team knows anything, they're get to you around the shield and focus you, but it can definitely work too, when on defense.
Torb can be a very hands off character and is very support heavy even for a defense character. Put down your turret, sit back and drop armor for you and your team. Let the rest take care of itself. Of course there's more to it if you want to be really good with him, but you get the picture. 
Sounds like you enjoy some oddball character components that lean away from classic FPS, and maybe you prefer a semi relaxed low stress playstyle. Depending on the map, I would suggest you check out Torbjorn, Mei, and Junkrat as possible fun picks for you.
You can learn new roadhog if you want to add a tank to your arsenal. I would encourage you to learn Mei and join us who love to watch others suffer at her hands tho. She's really is ameizing!
If you're gonna choose mercy you might wanna wait til her new changes come out because she's gonna be a whole different character. If you're gonna choose Symm be prepared to get bitched at for choosing your best character. Lucio is probably the safest bet
I'm unsure about how she'll play after her changes, but I and a lot of other support mains really love playing D.Va. You can hang back with your healers and use your DM to protect them from pesky flankers, or fly at big threats (e.g. ulting Soldier, McCree, Pharah) to save the whole team. She doesn't have the self-healing that you like, but she doesn't require precise aim and it's satisfying to act as the protector of the team and flexibly negate threats as they arise.

Though again, I'm not sure if she'll still play the same way after her changes. :P
I've played a lot of Mei the last few months and she's become my favorite hero rather quickly. Contrary to popular belief, I consider her a tank, as she can use her wall to create space for her team (as well as separate an enemy or two from their team for easy picks) and buy time for your DPS teammates to get kills by stalling. Another thing she's great against is DVA, who is incredibly easy to freeze and charge your amazing Ult with. Some of my better plays are the result of freezing a DVa, snagging a pair of headshots, then unleashing my blizzard on the healers behind her. I recommend giving Mei a try because, as far as I've seen, she is one of the least explored heroes with untapped potential.
When you're practicing aim I say try soldier. You'll like the self healing and outside of other skilled hitscan/hanzos you have pretty free reign from a nice high perch. Since you said you find tanking stressful I assume you don't like the front line, which also makes soldier/maybe pharah a good choice over mccree/reaper/tracer types
Mei is good, and maybe you can try pharah. She can flank, doesn't always need to make direct shots, and can be in the middle of the action too. Only thing is she can't heal herself if course and you will want to be careful close range and you will have to know where health packs are and you're gonna use them a lot, since healers often won't have much time to stop healing the tanks and other heroes on the ground next to them to get to you. 
winston to complete the autism roster
Winston is also good in almost every game. Zarya is also a fun character to learn, but placing well timed bubbles and gravitons can be stressful at first (it does get easier).

I assume OP finds the aggressive aspect of tanking to be more stressful as it can be difficult to decide how deep to go and where you should be standing to make the most of your kit. This is one of the harder parts as you can only learn it through experience and watching better players. Push yourself until you die and realize that you overcommitted. Then dial it back so you survive next time. Watch other players and/or experiment with different positions to see which ones let you survive with more ease.
I second this. Especially is you're gold or under, you've got time to grow your aim as Torbjorn. Learning good Turret placement and armor usage is very support like, and then Torb actually has a really surprising dps at both long and short ranges.

Focus on setting up turret, and then just lob single shots down the field.

Use the spread shot if anyone gets too close.

Eventually you should see steady improvement. And while the drop on his primary fire doesn't translate to many characters well, it still will let you practice aim while still having a positive impact on the game. 
Mcree is right beside supports most of the time though, but he is one of the more unforgiving hitscans. 
well depending on the situation sure, but in a lot of cases soldier/zen/ana types can play with long sight lines while mercy/lucio/mccree need to be closer so it all varies

[PC] We still doing VODs? (2.8K SR Rein)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRZVO3K_RbA&feature=youtu.be

Ended up winning this game, but it's been a while. Still would like to know I did right and what I did wrong and what I can improve on. I can take criticism; feel free to blow me out of the water if you must.

Also sorry you can't hear my mic, but you can hear my teammates. There was one guy who was a bit nasty to me but rest assured I wasn't engaging him I was just making calls.Being Rein/Winston main at 3800 i give it a shot.

2:00 reaper said it, get in on the point. Create space
3:00 charge way quicker in an ulted monkey.
3:40 lost the point for no reason. You are a tank that will hold the door like hodor. Even if your feeding, stalling point has much more value in this cases. If you made it even to 87% chances are high that you win the round with a teamwipe an backcap
4:10 Muting the only one that talks even though he made my points
4:40 Again be more aggresive. Peek and shooting is best done ON the point. 
5:40 not knowing were the shoots from road came. I saw them but you didnt notice
6:20 Genji ults and you do nothing. What you should do:  Find your best healer (or any healer) and charge right through them. Things that might happen: genji gos for heal, he gets pinned, win. Or he goes for heal you push him away, healer stays alive bit longer. Also a win. Rein is all about creating space. Remember that.
6:30 now you could play save close to ult and do door smashing. So you can ult. 
7:30 charge out of spawn. One fire strike earlier is good
8:00  why this forth and back in front of point? Show dominance. Go on the point and stay. You show insecurities 
9:30 shout calling on lucio! He was so low. Got lucky that he wasted ult though
10:10 hog ultying. Do drop shield quickly repeatedly so you and squishy get pushed away controlled. Also saves shield
12:00 again. Charge out of spawn
12:30 its like you dont want to move out in the world. Again trapped in a hallway
13:10 going in a 5v6 when grouping up leads to staggering
14:30 i like it that you pushed the road back in. Good charge. Also followed up your team
15:00 dont wait at the point. Go to the chocke point (door to the building) when the enemy team groups up. Again dont give them unnecessary space
15:30 second charge was so random. In this case wait till their engage and only 2 ppl are in the back, if you really wanna go aggressive and kill the backline.
Also what you could do is look arround, find your healers and have a close eye on them. Sometimes you get an easy kill there too

Overall improve on:
- Creating space. Push forward and dont wait in doorframes
- Be way more aggressive were you stand (follow up first point)
- charge out of the point to be there first and create space
- Use coms. If you start doing it, it gets way more a habbit and helps to shout call
- Personal opinion: (almost) never mute. Exceptions: high toxicity. Loud noises that wont stop.

Overall think of rein as the FIRST in line of fight. If you back up your team will unwillingly. If you walk in a room and set a wall (of imagination border) almost 80% in. The enemy team might back up and goes defensive (as you showcased good). Attack is the best defense so good luck boy


Some basic Rein tips:

-If you jump before charging it cuts the casting time and you can even jump around corners.

-If you leapfrog with your shield you can move a lot faster than just walking 
Thank you!  That was really helpful! And yeah muting him was probably a mistake but something told me he was just going get mad, and he was already being kind of rude so I muted him and focused on what I had to do. I did start taking his advice though (even if he didn't put it very politely) and go for some more aggressive charges, but I still should focus on going in more. I started playing a bit more aggressive in the games following and I find charging clean through to the point actually does a good job at breaking defenses and getting your team in.

Do you have any advice on managing risky charges? I feel like dropping the shield and going for a cheeky pick can easily be a lost team fight if I miss, so I'm scared to do it sometimes.

Thank you for the advice! I appreciate it!
Only advice, no rules.
You want to stay alive during and after charge. What is the most likely scenario if you dont insta kill someone? You want to avoid the death scenario. I stopped doing yolo charges. Save charges that will end maybe near a teammate or the wall you defended have a much higher value. 

Instead of risky charges do risky hammer swings. Great for ult charging and if you get damage, your dds will stay alive.


Tips for picking up Reaper and Zen?
Hey guys, I'd like to extend my hero pool a little. I'm a tank main right now, with a little McCree/Genji in there. 

Looking to pick up Reaper since he's supposedly less mechanically intensive than other DPS.

Also looking to add Zen to my arsenal since I currently don't have any supports I can play comfortably. I really dislike the feel of Lucio/Mercy, and I hear Ana is very challenging for a player without strong aim. Also, I hear Zen is good for "carrying" which is nice since I do solo Q a bit.

So any resources for learning these two heroes in particular?
Hi! Reaper and Zen main here.
Some tips about the Edgelord:

•He's a flanker, so you don't want to rush recklessly against the opponent head-on: instead, learn some flanking routes and pick them on the back.

•His shotguns deal MASSIVE damage at close range, practically none at long; aim for the throat with the point, so half of the bullets will go on the head, and half on the body, maximizing the damage.

•Wraith Form (Shift) is an escape rope, not a passport for joining the fight.

•Shadow Step (E): you want to use it for flanking, forget about it in fights, it's too slow. 

•You are a tank killer, so going for them: others will have an easier time dealing with the others.

•Death Blossom (Ult) is deadly, but you're very vulnerable meanwhile. 
You want to launch yourself from an high ground and ulting, so you'll take them unprepared.

•When you are reloading, when the shotguns fall, do a melee attack: it will cancel the animation if did with the correct timing, allowing you to fight more efficiently.

If you want a easy and chill DPS, btw, take Soldier: easy, self-heal, assault rifle, grenades, sprint and aimbot.

Zen:

•His spheres do a lot of damage, higher than the other Supports.
If you hold his Alt fire, he'll charge up to 5 shots, and release them immediately after. I strongly suggest you to spam the primary fire tho, because meanwhile you're charging your alt you can't heal or Discord.
Use your alt when you have a secure kill (a tank w/out barrier, Doomfist with cooldowns)

•Harmony Orb (Shift) heals a single target for all the time you have that guy in the line of sight: if the goes behind a wall, after 3 second the orb will return. I suggest always having a Harmony on somebody (both of Zen's abilities don't have a cooldown), especially Flankers or DPSs. Look out for those who have self healing capabilities, they don't have urgencies.

•Discord Orb (E), put on a enemy, increases the damage dealt to that guy by 50%. Like the Harmony, it will disappear after 3 second if not in sight, and you should always have a Discord on.
Put them on Tanks and primary dangers: it's like saying "I WANT THAT GUY DOWN!" to the others.
Also, the Discord orb allow a little wallhack, if you can, communicate with others the enemy's positions.

•Transcendence (ult) wants to be used for counter ults (Graviton, Barrage, Tact Visors, Blossoms, etc) or strengthen pushes (not recommended).
Watch out, you'll be immortal and heal massively others, but will not protect them from strong burst damage like D.va's ult.

Sorry for bad formatting and grammar-
If you want more just ask :D
I'm a top 500 Zen on PS4. My advice is to charge your orb volley constantly and get good at landing those shots. A lot of Zenyattas don't use them as nearly as much as you should be using them. You need to learn to dance around cover as Zenyatta. Put an orb on someone, shoot at them with your primary fire, and if they see you as a nice frail topic, you start to dance around cover and charge your orb volley. As soon as they come into your line of sight, or if you put them in your LOS, you fire. 

I used to be a very good Zenyatta before the orb volley update from months ago, but now it is a very big part of my game. I pretty much have it charged for a good chunk of my fights. You can take out opponents so fast once you can utilize it well. 
Zen also doesn't have drop off damage. He's great at taking out torb turrets, Bastion, and other characters that like to hunker down in one spot. 
I second the Reaper tips. But please don't say Soldier is an easy hero, i made an entire account for him :(
>He's a flanker, so you don't want to rush recklessly against the opponent head-on: instead, learn some flanking routes and pick them on the back.

no honestly dont, reaper is too slow and too easy to punish flanks
>increases the damage dealt to that guy by 50%

wrong its 30%
dont recommend charging that many volleys because you cant adjust orbs
Yeah.
Yeah, he can be used to snipe like a Hanzo when required.
But it's a classic basic hero-
Have you ever seen a Reaper at close range? He shred anyone, and Flanker doesn't always mean fast.
Ah seriously? He got a nerf?
In a game with a lightning fast lesbian, wallclimbing ninjas, and deadly robots... He didn't start this war.
im telling you its not worth it. reaper is strong in head on fights. you just need to find a way to get in, usually you wanna push with your team and speedboost. flanking on repaer is really shitty, you are gonna get absolutely rekt past diamond and probably in diamond too. its a bad habit and a waste of time.
yes long time ago, the 50% was only for a short time when they realized it was too op
Lmao.

I need help getting to the bottom of what's happening with a friend and my accounts in competitive.
Hi there, I'm trying to figure out what exactly is happening with especially my best friend's account. He and I play together 99% of the time which makes the differential all the more head scratching to me.

I picked up the game during season 2, and by season 3 my friend had also gotten the game. Towards the end of that competitive season I finally felt competent enough to do my placements, which resulted in just around mid gold (2228). I queued with my friend to help him through placements, which resulted in us mostly stomping to the point that he placed low platinum at 2506, an SR we both knew was way off as he had just started the game that month and was still learning it. We didn't play comp together much more that season, and he ended up falling to 1717 by the end of that season. He has mostly been placed around the same area every other season, and is very slowly improving his game.

Flash forward to season 6 I feel as though he is playing around a low gold at his best, and at his worst a mid-high silver. Hearing that season 6 would stop placing people slightly lower than they belong we were excited that this would finally be the season I made plat and he made gold, and that was partially correct. I did finally make plat after placements, but my best friend was placed even lower than usual at high bronze: 1486.

What is going on with my friend's SR? We play together a majority of the time including in comp, so we're winning and losing the same games against the same people, and he's slowly improving. Why is his SR not reflecting this, and why in the world was he placed so low this season while I slowly advance every season? Is playing with me tanking his MMR and SR somehow? Did season 3 somehow damage his SR in a way that the game isn't sure how to react to? Does anyone have any insight into what's going on? Are his main picks (Winston/Soldier/Reaper/Lucio) not particularly good for him perhaps? My friend is a bit demoralized after this and I'd really like to get to the bottom of it. Thanks in advance. Keeping the new system in mind, your friend's personal performance during placements was probably poor. 
I had a similar problem with a friend (kind of). He was a plat season 3 then didn't play season 4 and 5 due to work commitments or something like that. He didn't play the game at all and eventually returned for season 6. His aim was terrible and died a lot due to not playing for a while. As a result, he was placed at silver, due to the performance based sr system (I think). I have a feeling your friend may just not be very good at the game and may have met a similar fate :s.
The amount of SR that you gain/lose each match depends on your individual performance, measured against all other comp players of that character on that map.
He might want to widen his roster a bit as he might find he just clicks with a different character.

Tips for how to fix an "off" day
Today I was tired and couldn't shake it. I spent probably 20 minutes warming up in the practice range and another 20 in a custom skirmish where the enemy can't attack. Eventually I just started playing Death Match because I wasn't even close to my normal accuracy for comp. I do most of the warmup with McCree as it's my favored hero atm. What do you guys do in the event of an off day?I'd just not bother playing comp. just QP
Play QP or just take an "off" and play some other games. Competetive is about winning and it's much harder to win if you're not in your best shape.
Personally, if I just feel like playing overwatch even though I'm having an off day, I adjust my sens/DPI depending on whether I'm too sluggish or anxious.
I still play comp cuz I ain't chicken
yup , just dont make this a job , ull dislike it rly fast , and dont just change sensitivity every other day , u dont HAVE to play comp if u don't feel like it , or feel off !
I was thinking about doing that but I didn't want to start bad habits.
Same here, then I go on a losing streak cuz I aint going to stop until I win a game.
It's just minor tweaks and you shouldn't develop bad habit, because if your bad days are rare, then when you're having a normal/good day the changes you made will seem excessive and you'll revert or you'll realize you should've been playing at those settings all along.

RipTire (Junkrat's ult) = 400 damage or 600 damage?
I know that for some time now (I've read in a few places, and have experienced it myself a few times), Junkrat's ultimate (Riptire) does 400 damage if detonated in the air, but 600 damage if detonated on the ground. I don't think I've ever seen whether that was deemed a bug or "working as intended," but does the tire still do that differing damage in the current Patch 1.14?

&nbsp;

Related rant: I know it's been said often, but here it is again: it's so stupid that the game's key info (damage numbers, cooldowns times, etc.) is not in the F1 menu. If they don't want to overwhelm new players, all they have to do is put like a "+" button that says "Advanced" under each ability.
If Blizzard isn't going to put all of the info in the F1 menu, they should at least make an official website with all of the numbers, instead of us having to hope gamepedia is updated and correct. This is probably one of the worst aspects of the game.I don't have any evidence (I assume you couldn't find any by Googling...) but I was under the impression that the damage difference is much smaller than 200. Something like 20-50.
Should be to easy to test. Get a junk and rein, built the necessary ult. Blow the tire right next to rein three ways, equidistant from the shield: on the ground; in the air; and on a wall.
Damage for tire is calculated from the center of the tire to the center of player model.  Which for some reason overwatch puts the point of center for the player in the feet. (from what i've been told)

So if you jump, you're farther away from their feet which makes it do less damage.  It will do more damage if the target is above you.  The falloff damage of tire is heavy, so heavy that if hog hooks a tire and you detonate it right away, he'll take  100 less damage.  So if 1-2 meters is 100 damage drop off, then 2-3 would be the 200 damage drop off.

If you're trying to kill a 600hp target, the tire model needs to be inside the player model, or close to.  I think you're experiencing just how weak junkrats ult is and how fickle it can be, its working as intended.
600 on the ground.

400 in the air.

Source - some podcast that interviewed pvptwtch. 
From what I understand, the tire calculates damage by distance from the center of the character it's hitting. If you're inside a Hog, for example, it will do the full 600 damage and kill him. Being in the air naturally increases that distance a fair amount.
[deleted]
I understand what you're saying, but I don't think that's 100% true from my experience. I've had tires very close to opponents, but in the air, seemingly do only 400 damage instead of the 600. Would kinda make sense if that "center" is the lower pelvis, but I doubt that.

I also doubt what you're saying because D.Va's self-destruct does all 1000 damage if it contacts any amount of the character model (if the person is close enough to the explosion), so why would detection for self-destruct and riptire be calculated differently?
I've been told it's the distance to their feet, hence why it does less dmg in the air
> If you're inside a Hog, for example

What kind of monster would anally insert Riptire into Hog?  Wait, nevermind, that monster is probably Jeff.
Rein shield has 2000 HP, no? 
Or you can use Reins 2000 HP shield that doesn't require a healer or healthpacks per test
600, 100%

and you can just test this with a symmetra and a roadhog, put up the shield gen and blow the tire on hog from different distances

you get exact damage numbers
This video from Terioth a year ago or so shows 585 damage for explosion in the air and 600 on the ground.

https://youtu.be/nKiIgMnrnRg?t=128

Obviously it could have been changed since then.
I've been told it's distance to their feet. Same thing with tracer pulse bomb and throwing it into a grav. 
Well, there's drop off for D:va's ult too, you just have to be pretty far away
I'm not 100% sure, but I believe that's how it works. There doesn't seem to be any concrete explanation from Blizzard that I can find.
I knew someone was going to comment on that.

Phrasing!
Also if you wanna talk EHP, Roadhog has about 1800 during Take a Breather.  
Video linked by /u/3becomingVariable4:

Title|Channel|Published|Duration|Likes|Total Views
:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:
[Top 5 JUNKRAT TECHNIQUES - Overwatch](https://youtu.be/nKiIgMnrnRg?t=128)|Terioth|2016-06-21|0:02:33|934+ (99%)|31,310

> Junkrat is exploding with possibilities!  Junkrat Tech...

---

[^Info](https://np.reddit.com/r/youtubot/wiki/index) ^| [^/u/3becomingVariable4 ^can ^delete](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=_youtubot_&subject=delete\%20comment&message=dmhcth2\%0A\%0AReason\%3A\%20\%2A\%2Aplease+help+us+improve\%2A\%2A) ^| ^v2.0.0
Though Roadhog would be difficult to use as a test given what time his ability/healing is activated relative to the damage.

Temple of Anubis - A Masters Sombra Map Guide
Hey everybody and welcome to another Sombra map guide - this time I'm going to be looking at what is arguebly Sombra's best map which is of course Temple of Anubis. The reason Anubis works so well for a character like Sombra is not only that the map of course is set out in a way that helps her, but of course the nature of 2CP is also a huge help in making Sombra so effective in this map - I made a guide a while back on why Sombra is so good for 2CP maps if that interests you. Before I begin I do wanna do my usual statement saying I am in no way a pro but this is just some advice that got me to the level I am at. Anyway, lets just jump right into it by looking at defense for this map first. 

&nbsp;


- - - -


&nbsp;


A video version if you don't wanna read :P


[Temple of Anubis - A Masters Sombra Map Guide](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=soI-iP9ZGeU)


&nbsp;

- - - -

&nbsp;


**Defending.**


&nbsp;



Defending the first point of this map makes you an EMP powerhouse, the positioning of the healthpacks on this map is unbeliavably powerful if you play right and the team plays very well coordinated around the hacked packs, a strong opener for a team to play is to hold the initial platform that most teams hold, hacking the large healthpack next to the platform so if the opposing team pushes the side then that healthpack will be in your favour to provide very powerful back-up for the team during any fights. Having this healthpack is important whether or not the enemy team pushes that way because if the other team is running a Sombra then you run the risk of them hacking
it and using it as a basis for their push to build ult and engage with EMP. There is also the small healthpack in the pathway ahead of the platform that the enemy sometimes pushes through to get to the high ground so hacking that healthpack helps the team be more aggressive in stopping the pushes by picking off the person at the head of the push - especially if they have been hacked. After those packs have been hacked and you've established a holding point a good play to do is to see if they have characters that utilize high ground well - by this I mean characters such as Soldier. McCree and Widow. If this is the case then a good idea is for you to hack the large healthpack on the high ground next to platform overlooking point A. What this allows you to do is of course deny healthpack usage for the team but more importantly provides essential back up for characters like Winston and Genji to push back the enemies on the high ground and use the healthpack so healers don't have to danger themselves or just aren't available.

&nbsp;

During any fights on this point your attention should be mostly focused on hacking prime targets like tanks and flankers - something I always say is that people are too focused on keeping all healthpacks on the map hacked and not focusing enough on using your abilites on the enemies. While your attention should be on the enemy team it is important you pay attention to the flow of the battle, if your team is positioned to defend the point on the high ground but you see the enemy team pushing under the bridge - try and drop a translocator on the high ground and then drop down and quickly hack the small healthpack next to point and get back to high ground to hack some people for the team. After lots of playtime and practise on Sombra hopeufully intuition and reaction to situations like this will become second nature and you know which packs will provide the best output to your team; in the heat of the battle that 8 second cooldown on the hack can feel like forever, don't hack irrelevant healthpacks during a team fight!

&nbsp;

Now point B has a very tight choke point that allows early EMP's to completly stall pushes before they even truely begin, this tight choke allows you to get a huge EMP off, guaranteeing atleast 4 people if they are grouped up - but it is important to remember that if you decide to commit to a fight this early then you will protect the point for at least a minute but they will have kept any ultimates they were saving to use when they were closer to the point. I find it is better to use your EMP reactively instead of actively - reacting to a Lucio sound barrier or a friendly Zarya grav. Especially if you are playing with people you don't know - EMP'ing without warning can sometimes lead to no follow up. Now of course Anubis point B has the very useful large healthpack under the bridge right next to point, which allows allies to retreat to during a fight and heal up quickly and easily while of course fuelling your EMP. Point B also offers a great positioning for Sombra as there is a pillar on point with a platform at which you will have a great opportunity to hack unsuspecting tanks that are pushing at the frontlines. Be careful though, this this spot is great for hacking uninterrupted but widow can shoot you from the left lane or from ontop of mid! Just work around the healthpack and use highground to provide as much hacks and damage as possible!

&nbsp;

**Attacking.**

&nbsp;


Attacking on this map, like all other 2CP maps basically goes the exact same as defending but just facing the other way. For point A though your opening strategy should depend on your team comp, running flankers and fast boys? Bottom left is the way you wanna go, hack the large healthpack and use it as your basis. Doing chip damage and healing up on the pack before an opportunity to get a pick and push presents itself. Hopefully your push is succesful and you can find a free secend to hack the small healthpack next to point to allow your team to heal up if needed - be careful though, if you have the chance to hack a Reinhardt or D.VA please do that instead. If you were running characters like Soldier and Rein then pushing top right might be smart, and hacking the large healthpack there for support while they can utilize the high ground to shoot down at enemies, you would be extra helpful here but stealthing in and hacking their main defensive tank, or staying and hacking any dive tanks trying to stop your team's DPS.

&nbsp;

For pushing onto point B you can be a bit premature, if your fight on point A has been successful and you are going to capture it definitely then you can drop your translocator and then stealth onto B and hack the large healthpack under the bridge and then translocate back to your team to push onto the team with them. Now when attacking you should be able to take advantage of the platform on the pillar the same way you would on defense if you decide to push main. If the team is going to push left then of course hack the small healthpack in that room so you have some health to fall back on and can push through the choke and EMP the enemy team waiting on the point. Remember when trying to do all these things don't forgot some of the basics, things like saving your ult for Lucio, going behind the enemy lines to get an easy pick on Zenyatta, hacking Mercy any change you get - that sorta stuff.

&nbsp;

Thank you guys so much for reading, I hope you enjoyed and got some usefulness out of these guides. There are some guides for a few other maps on my channel if you're at all keen for that, otherwise thanks again for reading!!

Super helpful guide! Nicely written. 
Cheers Andy :P
Thank you!! Thanks for reading!

Orisa
I mained Orisa in my placements and got placed at 1516. I was wondering if anyone had good Orisa tips for me to climb. A few general tips on when to use her abilities:

**Halt!**

Don't use Halt! just because. Have a reason for using it. Ideally, you'll hit spam on someone trying to poke, and then use Halt! when they retreat to pull them back in and finish the kill.

**Fortify**

Use in one of two situations: (1) when enemy comes storming in with all their firepower and you're close to full health. Fortify is much stronger when you still have armor and less strong when you're at half health or lower. (2) when you anticipate an ability and/or to escape an ult. If I see a roadhog coming to hook, I fortify. If I see McCree get too aggressive in an obvious attempt to flashbang, I fortify. If doomfist is rearing up for a punch or Reinhardt is charging, I fortify. Grav, Blizzard, earthshatter, I fortify. Just like Halt!, have a legitimate reason for using fortify. Extra important given its long cool down. 

**Shield**

Deploy it early and often. Don't hesitate to launch a shield toward a teammate if he's in trouble. At close range duels, dance in and out of your shield and use Halt! to keep the enemy on the other side of it. 


climbing with orisa in solo q seems like masochism   

I was around 2200 maining orisa, so take my advice with a grain of salt. Yeah orisa is a bit tricky. Learning how to track with her gun is most important. 

Shield placement.  Balance between being aggressive and a little ahead of your group and not pushing too far ahead because orisa has a ridiculously big hitbox and can die quickly. Try putting the shield forward and dropping back a bit to protect your backline healers. Also try checking in with your dps/healers to ask how your shield placement is.

Halt is very helpful. It can be used to pull people away from you that are about to kill you, protect your team, pull people off a ledge. Pull people together for  an ultrasound like Hanzo or junkrat. I maybe most often use it to pull a sniper or junkrat off a ledge making them an easy target for your team. 

The damage boost thing is SO hard for me to use.  You want to use it at the beginning of an engagement or after getting a few picks so you can ensure your team wins that fight. It also paints a huge Target on your back and I've had many a junk rat focus me with his mines and shred me/the boost in seconds. I'd ask one of your team with some range (soldier or maybe another tank?) To sit with you to guard it so your team keeps that damage boost.
Be aware of the shape of the barrier and from what angles it will protect you and your team from. It helps to know flanking routes and likely Widow spots so you can maximise its coverage. Don't be afraid to put it at 45degrees to the enemy as you can usually cover the front and one of your flanks with it, depending on the surrounding scenery.

If you get 1v1'd then drop it at your feet and dance in and out of it like a Winston. You can also use HALT to keep them away from the barrier and give you more time to finish them. She's really strong against soldier/mcree/reaper/doomfist if you see them coming and have both halt and barrier off cooldown. Genji and tracer are your biggest threats. Your gun has no damage drop-off and you need surprisingly little time investment to force a widow to relocate or look for healing. 

I'm still working out how to get the most out of Supercharger but I have the best results when I'm a secondary tank and can stand up on high ground, giving Mercy a safe space to fly to and where supercharger has line of sight to the group and will likely survive its whole duration.
I main all the tanks and what's great about Orisa is that she fires her shield and has a projectile gun.  This means she plays differently particularly in regards to shield placement.  So a few tips on shield placement:

1. Learn to aim at your feet rapidly and return to a home position.   This is best when fighting up close and on the point.   A common mistake I see is that it's fired too far forward (past or at the thing that's trying to kill you).  If you fire at your feet,  it deploys faster and you can...

2. Learn to bounce in and around your shield.  This part plays like Winston in an up close fight, so if you are getting flanked or challenged up close, dance around by walking through it to the other side. 

3.  Place the shield back at least 10m or so from the choke.   You don't want it in the doorway, you want it back so that when they come through the choke that your shield is still in front of them.   A common mistake here is to put it horizontal with a large opening but that's no good because they can usually line of sight while on the other side and then once they walk through the shield, they are in front of the it and render it mostly useless.   If you are playing Orisa and notice that the other team just seems to ignore your shield and walk past it, then you are putting it too far forward.

4. If the enemy team is split up (i.e. DPS/ healers in the back, tanks in the front) you can cut off heals to the front line by firing the shield *behind* their tanks.  You shouldn't do this unless you are getting heals but if you are, its a quick way to pick off an enemy front liner. 

5. When you are running back to a fight, you can get a shield in position from a great distance.  Just getting a shield anywhere close to your team gives them additional cover to use and you can reposition once you've gotten back to the fight.

6. A projectile shield can save people who are out of position.  You want to be careful that you don't overextend the whole team but sometimes tossing that shield out a bit farther is the thing that lets your DPS return safely to your healers.    Playing back a bit also lets you more safely make these kind of saves without worrying about over-extending your shield.  

7. The barrier is curved pretty significantly and even from a perpendicular flank, it takes up about the space of a small doorway.   Use this to your advantage and place them perpendicular to such doorways (more common on maps like Gibraltar).  This is a great way to shut down potential flanking routes.  

The most common mistake I see made related to positioning is that shield placement and therefore team placement is too far forward.  Orisa has a strong ranged gun and does best when enemy players have to cross a decent amount of open space to get to the other side of her shield.   Unlike Reinhardt, who benefits from playing up close within hammer range, Orisa benefits from forcing the enemy team into open ground where she can fire upon them and pull them back into the open with her alt-fire.  This is the real key to playing Orisa well.
When attacking, launch your barrier forward each time it goes on cooldown. This allows you to take space and advance. The more of a DPS advantage you have over the defending team determines how far forward you launch it. 
I'll copy/paste my wall of text from another thread with a few modifications:

My experience with Orisa has been that I do best with her on attack. On defense if they break the first hold, it tends to be a scramble to set up another front line, especially if I'm solo tanking with her. And if they have Genji or Tracer they can keep pressure up and prevent a good solid front line from coming together again. Others seem to prefer her on defense, but I'm not sure how they recover from their first hold being broken.

On offense though, you're playing into a front line which Halt and her shield is very good for disrupting. One of the funnier things I'll do is lob a shield juuuust past their front line, preventing their Ana or Mercy from doing much unless they expose themselves to danger. Then I advance with Fortify up as my DPS take advantage of the situation, drawing most of the fire. This does basically require a healer to be paying more than a little attention to you, especially if the push stalls out before Fortify wears off.

Some basic Reesi tips: The higher your armor, the more effective Fortify is. I've walked through Hanzo dragons (from one side to the other, a full on dragon will still kill unless you have a Mercy/Ana) with Fortify and still had half my health left. Not saying its an ideal tactic, its more an example of how tough Fortify makes you.

Halt works best when you're pulling people into the air because they have little to no air control without initial velocity. It also tends to disrupt Tracer and Genji's patterns. Grabbing them after a rewind or a wall-climb can be especially disorienting for them, and makes them a very vulnerable target. Closer to home, Halt can enhance your shield-dancing significantly. You can also punish Pharah for getting too close to the ground with Halt, which makes her much much easier for basically everyone to hit. You can use it to deflect a Reinhardt charge or Reaper ult if you predict it well enough, though that can be just as risky as Lucio boops.

Aside from reloading, nothing will interrupt Orisa's stream of fire. I haven't taken the time to test what all will interrupt a reload, but I kind of have the feeling only Fortify works based on my hazy recollection. I'm fairly certain you can't ult while reloading without breaking it.

Speaking of her ult, its weird and awkward and hard to get a feel for. I've had a few games where I felt like it had an impact, but its really hard to say definitively. Basic use, drop it with a shield in front and hope for the best. It seems to be easier to do on defense, but there are some locations you can drop it out of LOS of the enemy while still providing the bonus. The final point of Gibraltar comes to mind for this, which frees up the shield for more active use. Barring a Tracer or someone coming for it. You can also keep your shield up for allies and stand on top of the bongos with fortify up. The problem is after fortify is over, you're immobile and very vulnerable so I tend not to favor it. Or I'll do a combination of the two, put a shield up in front of the team and plant the bongos, then as soon as the shield drops, I'll fortify and hold position for as long as possible. Without communication, you'll kind of have to rely on your teammates knowledge of how Orisa works to do well with a lot of her kit.

Last bit is her gun.About all I can say is, if you can track with Zarya, and reliably hit targets with Zen, you've got a good base to learn from. ~~Though the next patch will change the projectile speed, so Zenyatta prediction skills won't be quite as handy, but they share projectile speeds atm.~~

With a bit of practice, you'll be handing out Reesi Pieces in no time

[I compiled some extensive comments about my experiences with Orisa](https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/6r7h4c/comment/dl3efi0?st=J73ST2Z1&sh=64ee5609)
Playing Orisa in a solo queue environment will show you just how unaware your teammates are.

I play at 3000-3200 with her and if my team is being aggressive, I'll throw a shield really far up so they'll have something to cover themselves with. Despite this, they will run right past the shield and attack from in front of it for no good reason.

For Orisa to work well, her team needs to understand how to play with a shield. Just as Winston will dance in and out of his barrier to be as annoying to hit as possible, so could your teammates use your shield for this very effect. But they rarely want to do this.

So with that in mind, to be successful with Orisa, you need to really watch how your team is playing and throw your shields in places that they will be behind the shield whether they like it or not. And that usually means throwing the shield a little further forward than seems correct.
Orisa and Mei are my mains, I'm in high plat (2.9k+) and this is what I've found:

1. Orisa is heavily team dependent. No healers? Don't pick her. No second tank and only 'Zen&Luc', don't pick her. Given a somewhat decent comp. she can destroy, but without support she is a giant sitting duck with a pumpkin sized head.

2. Multitasking is important. Know your cool downs, know when to use your skills and know when to give ground. A lot of Orisa players don't back off with her. Example Hanamura first point, if the enemy does manage to push too hard on the clutch (you've lost 1/3 life and have them focusing you, maybe some allies are dead), drop back. If you can stay alive as Orisa you can (a bit like Bastion) rain damage on point while one of your more mobile allies contests. If you have a moderately decent Luc, let him contest alone. Spam fire onto point, use your Halt!s to displace enemies so they can't hit him and once your team is grouped up, you'll push them back.

3. Her Ult is best used as a supportive ult. Don't really bother try to use it to stop an enemy push. Use it to fill allied ults or use it to dmg buff ulting friends.

I've found these strats to be quite useful. Last season my win rate on her was 75%, this season only 50%, though I've only played two games with her so far, so I'd say they seem to work okish for my level.
Always have your shield on cooldown, reposition it constantly. Hold down trigger the whole match, spam halt, immediately Fortify if you start getting shot from behind your shield. And again,  never stop shooting. Also deploying a shield or using halt can shorten the time of her reload.
Good tips! I've been playing a ton of Orisa recently (placed mid plat almost to diamond already) and this is recommended! 
What tanks would you recommend for solo queue? That question's gotten a lot trickier for me now that they've nerfed Roadhog, and now they're reducing DVa's ability to tank as well...

I definitely play Winston a lot. I like Reinhardt, but he isn't great for solo queue either. What other heroes would you recommend?
I climbed from 1455 to 2577 last season as Orisa solo queuing. Orisa is a great hero for this IMO, as she can output a LOT of damage by herself, yet still tank for the team. Heroes like Rein kind of need the team to be decent. Good flankers can cause issues, yes, but her damage output often allows her to beat flankers other tanks might be a bit stuck against (at least from my experience).
I'll play Orisa on defense when defending a choke but if momentum starts to get away from the team I usually switch to Rein, Winston or Zarya. 
I main orisa this season (with a new account). I got 6wins, 3 losses and 1 draw. I got placed at 2776. 3 wins latter I am at 2940. She more requires healing than dva and winston but if you manage to keep you lucio alive you'll survive anything. 
> Don't be afraid to put it at 45degrees to the enemy as you can usually cover the front and one of your flanks with it, depending on the surrounding scenery.

This is one thing I never see players do. I'm a high-Plat Orisa main, but I've discovered that turning her shield can help cover flanks, while the shape of it allows it to still protect the main chokes. Its shape makes it really cool to defend with and offers some great angles to hide.

Her Halt is phenomenal for lining up headshots, pulling people off cliffs and edges, misplacing important heroes (like pulling a Torb off the ledge, separating him from his turret), and disorienting players. Also, you can use it to reveal characters hiding behind walls or on ledges. Kind of like a poor man's Infra-sight. If you have a Widow or Hanzo, team up with them to line up some terrific shots.

Don't waste Fortify. It can save your life if you're getting flanked or outmatched. With good awareness, you should be able to learn when you're about to be displaced or attacked. It can help you survive a Junkrat trap, Mei Blizzard, Pharah concussive, or other attacks that would cripple any other hero. Sure, it can reduce your damage, but it should be used to help you survive dangerous situations.

Like everyone said, barrier usage is key. Keep your barrier out at all times, and reset it when no one's around, so it doesn't disappear when you need it during an important fight.

Be proactive with her Ult. If you sense a big teamfight coming up, drop it. It's better to kill first with an advantage than to wait until it's only you alive on the point. If you're in voice chat, try to team it with a DPS ult like Deadeye or Dragonblade.

Finally, use her Halt to take out priority targets. Zenyatta melts under her clip. Genjis will try to deflect your shots, so wait until he deflects, then kill him the same way. If you can farm charge off tanks, do it.

All in all, Orisa is a blast to play, and takes a considerable amount of skill and awareness to play well. A lot of this comes from practice. The good news is, a lot of people don't play her, so a lot of people don't know how to deal with her, which gives you the advantage. Just make sure your team plays around you. You don't want to play her if there's no healer on your team.
Use it when enemy team pops transcendence or drops the beat to allow your dps to gain ult charge more quickly, too.
One thing you mentioned that I wanted to expand on is shooting your shield into the point from far away. Orisa is really slow to get back into the fight so most of the time I will shoot my shield really high into the air over walls and drop it into the point from very far away. It doesn't have to be perfect as long as it gets somewhere close enough to provide your teammates with somewhere to retreat to or disrupt the enemy in some way. In many levels you can toss a shield into the point from near the spawn. Her shield recharges quickly enough that there's not much cost for spamming it.
I'm back to playing roadhog. I can survive a lot longer now, and thats enough reason to go back to playing the tank I like the most
well whatever tank you think you have survivability with is generally best.   
it's just that orisa really really needs a competent backline protecting your butt coz of the huge hitbox - you won't really get that in solo q.   
also her ult, despite boosting the whole team really requires the other team members you have to be fucking good and utilize the ult/defend the ult thingy so again in solo q, you're gonna get feel like orisa isn't really effective.   
if you can get a really good dps to back up your orisa that would be best,
and again **to climb you have to make plays that the game recognizes as "woah this gamer has skill"** so containing ults with winston's barrier, killing groups of people with zarya's/rein's ult, eating ults with dva's absorbing are what you really need to be focusing on, not "playing for the team and letting them get plays".ideally you would be a lynchpin of the team, making pushes other capitalize on but staying alive long enough that you can be a mini fallback point in case their push fails   
   
it's a sad reality of solo q, you'll climb really slow as a tank unless you're the one making the pushes and orisa just can't push without team mates 100pc support
I have a lot of success as Zarya, and I almost exclusively solo queue. Your team will almost always follow up on Grav even with no comms (hey look 4 people are stuck in place, maybe we should kill them), plus you benefit from their poor positioning (soldier pushed up too far and got hooked? thats free 40 charge for you). She isn't too mechanically demanding either, you just need good tracking aim to  do a lot of damage. I used to struggle with tracking but lowering my sens helped me so much. I would recommend picking her up; she honestly isn't as complicated as some people make her seem.
yeah i just don't bother taking orisa. countering her is just too easy to bother learning her just for a chokepoint strat
this guys places at 1500, no way he's climbing with orisa. i want you to drop to 1500 and climb with orisa to see the pain it brings
Tbh it's easy to carry at that elo with anyone. I carried my way out with mercy just standing around corners. Orisa shouldn't be too bad if he knows how to place the shield and pull people off the high ground.  

How to play around the 4/5 dps on your team? [2650SR]
This has happened quite a lot, as in around 1 out of every 2 games where we get 4-5 dps on our team. If you count the times the enemy team does the same, it's probably closer to 90-95% of games, where one or even both teams do this. 

Also, I play in solo Q, not in a stack where this could be more easily avoided.

When the enemy team does this, it's pretty easy to win. Likewise when my team does it I find it near impossible to win.

I find it a lot easier when it's 2/2/2 or even 3 dps, 1 tank 2 healers instead of 4 dps, 1 tank, 1 healer or 5 dps, 1 tank OR healer.

I've literally never had this problem in high gold or around ~~2500SR.

Since I can't change their minds to switch off, I've tried, how can I work around this to increase my chances of winning when there are so many dps players on my team?

edit: it's never 6 dps, because I switch to (mostly tank) or healer if there are already more than 2 dps because I want to win.Depends on who your teammates are honestly.

Whenever I have an instant 5 DPS team, I always go Lucio.

After your first two initiations onto the enemy team, examine how they went and why they didn't work. Of course if you are winning, this is irrelevant.

Was your team able to get 1 or 2 picks in your initiation onto the enemy but were unable to last throughout the entire team fight due to having no tanks and not enough heals? Or was your team struggling in the initiation phase and there wasn't even much of a chance in the long run?

If the former is more familiar, then I recommend telling your team that if someone went Winston or really any tank, it would be a clean sweep because they already have fragging power. If no one switches, your best bet is to just play Lucio but instead of playing for the long run by peeling more and such, just go all in with your speed amp and hope that the enemy sucks at peeling off your DPS.

If the latter is more familiar and there is no hope in sight, then I honestly just recommend hopping on a hero that you want to get better at and just practicing at them.

As an extra side note for these 5 DPS comps, if you can manage 2 of your DPS to switch to a Sombra and Soldier, you can have a much better chance at winning with this strategy if you can gather up some teamwork and encourage your team play around Sombras health packs and Soldiers Biotic Field. Except this is rather rare as the DPS instalocks typically don't communicate.

TLDR; play lucio if there is hope in sight, practice any hero if things are looking grim.
What I do, and what I have found to be extremely effective, is this: Say to your team "Hey, we probably need a tank and a healer. If somebody chooses either one of those, I will choose the other". Of course, this only works if you can both tank and heal. As long as you can though, someone is usually nice enough to choose one or the other.
Go dps for the luls 
Depends but imo the best are zen,lucio,Winston, rein, or pharah. Lucio helps people like reaper and sym get close with speed, Winston finished damage if your team needs it, zen adds more damage with discord, rein blocks for hitscans/snipers and pharah is the do it yourself character, even if you don't kill them they focus you so your team has it easier
I think a lot of practice on tanks and supports will help. If you're good at at least one healer and tank, that should be enough to set you apart from a dps player who just plays tank or healer to fill the role. Also, if you're planning on playing tank with only one healer, look to see who the healer is. If your with a Lucio or zen, you might find it hard to get healed fast enough. In these situations, I would recommend playing either zarya or roadhog (especially zarya), as both can self heal. I haven't run into this in comp yet, but those are my go-to tank picks in QP if I find that we don't have a reliable source of healing. My best advice is, if you aren't looking to main a tank/healer exclusively, at least have a lot of practice on them so that you can be comfortable in any situation.
As already mentioned, Lucio is probably your best bet to heal 4-5 DPS solo. Honestly, the easiest solution is to duo queue. There are plenty of places to look for groupmates, like OW LFT.
Two heroes are more powerful when with 4-5 DPS: Zenyatta (assuming you call out your Discords in voice chat) and Symmetra (with shield generator, increasing the squishies' health pool).
Pick your best healer and roll with it. You'll have a huge amount of heals to pad your stats so you'll lose less SR for a loss and gain more SR for a win.
I say go healer.  Solo tank will just get you eaten alive with no healing and probably no coordination from the team.


 Lucio is probably the best bet to survive with, but i have had a few miracle wins by going mercy and just pocketing the best DPS on the team.  Only works when one of your 5 DPS is clearly a leg up on everyone else, but that happens more than I would have expected.
I usually go widowmaker/hanzo until someone switches to a healer, then i'll switch to a tank.
Accept the loss and don’t worry about the SR
[deleted]
I'll try out Lucio next time this happens and see how it works 

Edit: also I'm worried about trying a new hero in these situations because if I end up having a 30% winrate on them because i only play them in these situations people are going to tell me to switch and possibly throw if I don't when I pick it in a regular game due to the low winrate.
This is what I do too.  Currently sitting at a 11% win rate playing Widow. lawl.
Indeed. 
The only real thing I can add is I’ve yet to encounter one of the shitty insta-lock DPS players flaming someone else for trying to help by going healer, regardless of their win rates.  Usually they aren’t even paying attention to that. 

What makes it hard for you to play with a Sombra?
Hey m'dudes, I have a question for you;

What makes it hard for you to play with a Sombra?
What are the things that annoy you/are confusing for you with this character?  I'm not asking in the terms of what you find difficult in playing her, no, I'm asking what you find is hard about playing with her on your team.

I currently sit around 2650 on Xbox overwatch, and I am duo queuing with a friend who is a decent DPS main.  Sometimes I queue with a friend who is a support/tank player, we seem to do okay.  I've played collectively about 60 hours of Sombra, 37 of which were in competitive last season. My win rate isn't great - it sat around 45% last season.  I know it's not the most reliable source but my stats on Oversumo say I'm playing really well as her.  I am a flex player.  I have played my share of bullshit Mercy games, I've played my share of tanking games where I have zero support from my DPS as they're off on a Hello Kitty Island Adventure, and my supports are on a kamikaze mission trying to save them from their own demise.  I've had amazing defense games where I'm on fire for the majority of it that are lost in the last second because someone has overextended in the last 10 seconds and are running back from spawn instead of fighting on point.

I've been accused of throwing, and I have also been able to work very seamlessly with my team and its usually teams where we all took it a little slower than usual, took less risks and fought our battles on point/on payload.
I think my biggest gripe right now is that even with Sombra's buff for her team mates of being able to see the hacked packs, my team is *not* fighting over them.  Why?  I don't understand why after almost a year of Sombra being live, very basic aspects of what she provides is not being utilized by the team.  She. Is. *Brokenly*. OP, m'dudes, and if we could all realise what she has to offer to a team composition I feel as though this season could be up for some exciting plays with less boring and predictable team comps; strategic plays instead of teams just smashing into one another and hoping for picks.  I would rather lose an interesting and challenging game than win a boring one.

I'm not sure what's up with plat players right now; but after a game where we've lost my buddy and I start to get messages about how shit we are and how hard they tried to "carry us", how we'll never taste the sweet embrace of diamond, when all I see is the inability to group together to make a concerted push onto point.  I can provide hacks to packs, I tell my group to play over them.  If I'm playing with Sombrero my average deaths are <10 per game and I'll average around 3000-5000 healing.  After a tough payload game last night which we lost, my card came up as 38 enemies EMP'd over the match.  I always had my team there with me when I did it.  Mercy as per usual is waiting for a phat rez all game, when rezzing one tank with their ult would've won us the point and she can build ult again, but dies with it every single team fight.  I'm not blaming you, Mercy, I just feel this is just a piece of the pie of why Overwatch can feel like such a frustrating game to play at times; if you are unable to keep up with the pace of the game it's unfortunate.

I feel through misinformation people have begun to see Sombra as a support.  Most games we've done really well with have had two supports; ALWAYS,  especially in this tier.  We are coming up to tougher games and its not enough to wait for the phat plays; its not enough to hold onto your ult for the perfect moment; you have to make an active decision in your game how you're going to play it.  You have to be *smart*.  You can't just blow your ult like you blow your load after 2 minutes with a beautiful woman.  Patience, young Jedi.

Anyway; I feel like I'm ranting and raving but I'd like to know what makes it tough for you to play with a Sombra?  I've given you some of my experience in the mix bag of games that I've had with her.
  A good Sombra + Genji can tear shit up, but I feel as though the issue lies in this player base's inability to keep themselves alive long enough for any of those plays to seem viable.  I know it's just the start of season but I feel as though the saltiness and nastiness of last season has just transferred over into this season and there won't be much of a change.  It feels like a *plat*eau, so to speak.  I'm always actively trying to get better as a team mate.

Just some thoughts and a question for you.

Sombra is very powerful, I use her solely on one account and climbed pretty easily with 60% win percentage. What makes it hard to play with her is if the other dps isn't consistent damage imo. Even if teammates aren't using health packs I still get ult very fast. I also find sombra hard to play when it's solo support. We're not pros so ppl aren't going to play around the health packs majority of games so I find she works best in a 2-2-2 lineup. If their poor communication as well sombra can be hard to play with. 
Sombra has three major weaknesses in lower tiers that you can address in-game with your teammates though communication.

**Teammates don't know how to play around healthpacks.**

This is true in high levels as well as low, and it's not the fault of players, as Sombra's mechanisms are unique and niche. You must communicate to your teammates where to position (generally) to take advantage of Sombra's strengths.

For instance, on Volskaya first, a Sombra composition will often do much better playing at the point and its high ground rather than at the traditional chokepoint. This puts your teammates in a position to take advantage of health packs; however, *it is your responsibility to advise your teammates.* If they don't listen, you have to work with them and what they want to do, just as you are asking them to work with you. If they choose not to follow your advice, consider changing your tone or approach- do not blame them for being stupid, as the issue may be you.

**Sombra has low pick potential.**

Sombra does well at sowing discord among the enemy, but her solo kill power is much less than a Soldier or Tracer. This means that you need to communicate and listen to focus targets. If your soldier likes to shoot at supports, help him finish them off. If your Genji wants to go in, tell your team that you are distracting the healers. *If you want stuff to die, work with your dps.*

**Sombra's EMP is powerful, but requires follow up.**

This one is easy in theory but difficult in practice. EMP is arguably the strongest part of Sombra's kit, but it requires awareness and coordination to get value. If you EMP and die, or EMP while your team is dead, or EMP the backlines, you will most often waste your ult. *Make sure that your team is ready, in position, and able to follow through.* Don't EMP a Mercy that is hiding with rez and expect her to magically die, then rage at your team for not finishing her off when you died.

These are the issues I have while playing with Sombras, other than team composition issues, and how to overcome them to some extent. Sombra relies a lot on her teammates, so the main skills to improve are communication and coordination. If you can't do this or don't want to do this, consider improving your aim and playing Soldier 76.
I think the reason Sombra sometimes gets in the bad light is because of her kill potential. The mentality is "She's classed as an offence hero so why aren't this Sombra in the killfeed. Yet they fail to realise that Sombra is an opportunist.

Every offence hero has more raw DPS than her, and her ult is the only ult in the Offense categori that can't kill. But a good Sombra is heaven sent when i play Soldier and we combo ults. 

There are times when i play McCree and go to deep, low hp and barely make it to the healthpack... It's hacked :(
"He vuelto"
GG
I know the only thing that's ever bothered us while queueing in a group and a random picking Sombra is the lack of communication. Very often we try to charge EMP and expect the Sombra to engage but she never does, waits for us to get wiped after we engage hoping she'd drop her ULT, and then drops EMP when everyone is dead. :(

I've only met Sombra's who engage with EMP twice and those were probably the easiest and best comp games ever. 
Pardon me, I'm not trying to come off as aggressive or blaming my team mates; I'm asking why is it so commonplace?  I've read quite a lot of answers like these across many forums and I appreciate you taking the time to respond.

I understand that yes it's maybe my aim that needs to improve and soldier might be a better pick but I have a worse win rate with him overall and sometimes that dps is simply not enough.   I talk to my team but half the time it's almost as if they're instantaneously tilted by the mere thought of playing with something off meta.  We are all learning, I get this, but I think what I'm trying to get across is that with a lot of my team mates they have hundreds of hours of play time across casual and competitive modes, and it seems like the basics of working as a team is lost on others.  If I'm playing a support I'd appreciate another support with me and a tank infront of me, ya know, tanking the damage, I tell them as much but then it's silence and it's as if I have offended their forefathers.

I'm trying to imply that I can really only do so much as a tank, as a healer, as a defensive character or a dps.  I can communicate but if it's falling on deaf ears or the team is venting its annoyance at being picked off by the Junkrat again, it can be very frustrating.   We can agree on a vague plan in spawn but it doesn't matter if everyone decides to do their own thing on the way to the choke and we're staggered for the whole game.

I think the point I'm trying to get at is it seems really commonplace picks like a tracer and soldier don't get the kind of flak Sombra sees even if they're in the killfeed a bazillion times as enemy picks.

I understand that from your point of you this is what you've garnered from playing with/as a niche pick and I appreciate the response.
If you are truly asking why it is so commonplace, then the answer is simple. Historically, Sombra has had low winrates. This means your team perceives the game to be harder with a Sombra than without. That means that you, the Sombra, are making life intentionally more difficult for your teammates, which is not something a team player should do.

Furthermore, now that the community knows that it must play with and around a Sombra, your teammates feel they have to put in more effort because of you. If you were just to play something normal, like a soldier, they wouldn't need to work as hard to, in their minds, carry your poor choice.

The reality may be different from your teammates' perception- you may play your very best on Sombra, and your team has the best chance of winning when you play Sombra over Soldier. But that does not change the historical trends that have rooted themselves in many players' minds.

This history is slowly changing, but it is not something you have direct control over, nor is it the fault of the other players on your team to rely on this history. Your best bets are to either work harder than you otherwise would to overcome discrimination and instill confidence in your team, or play a different, more accepted hero.

How do I know this? I'm a Sym one-trick who has reached 3998 on PC.
I understand ^^

I will try a lot harder in the future.  Thanks for your responses.

I need a guide to orisa please
theres none on the university and im supposed to be tank for my team and i would really like some help https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/search?q=Orisa&restrict_sr=on&t=month

Check out some of these, also there are guides listed in comments of some posts
I'm not an Orissa main but I do play tanks/Ana, 3900 peak so take that how you want. Orissa is like a weaker version of bastion with a shield. You're looking for headshots so get the lead down.


You apply pressure to dps and Winston regularly. Control Winston with the halt. Also use halt to peel the enemy team back. You also use halt for fleeing targets that are low hp.


Never let reaper get past your shield, you have to headshot him before he gets close.


When snipers are focusing you emphasize shield management and LOS peeling.


Fortify works well against zaryas grav and meis freeze gun. It doesn't work well against reaper or roadhog. 



Get your fortifies down against sleeps pins and flashbangs 


I think Orissa requires a mastery of peeling because of her immobility.
1. Use halt to pull snipers out of position, pull people off of cliffs or into pits, and disrupt ultimates.


2. Use fortify defensively when charged by rein or mei is around, or offensively to finish off quick moving or unaware opponents.


3. Place your shield into choke points and guard it. Communicate to your team that you're guarding the choke and they need to take care of flankers for you. 


4. Team up with a Bastion and cover him while on the point. If you have a mercy have her damage boost him from behind the shield.


5. Really lead your shots and make sure you are getting headshots. Shoot at enemies and then use your halt to bring them back to you when they try to run away.

Is win percentage a good indicator of what you're good with?
I mostly play the four healers - Lucio, Zen, Ana, Mercy. I have between 40-60 hours with all 4. My win percentages, 'all modes' are as follows:

Lucio: 54%
Zenyatta: 60%
Mercy: 47%
Ana: 47%

Does this basically mean I suck with Ana/Mercy and should drop them for Zen/Lucio? Or are there other factors that could play into it over that many hours? 

Would I be better off focusing on fewer healers?

Thank you for your help. I know I'm asking about healers, but I hope my question provides some help to people irrespective of the heroes they play.

I also wouldn't reference all modes. Competitive seasons or quick play, if you dont have enough data, is the best way. You don't really wanna include arcade etc. etc.
Win % and total games played on that character. 
Win percentage is only relevant over a large number of games. So many people pick up a new character and see that they have a 60%+ winrate with them and think "oh why haven't i been playing this all along" when the number is unreliable from the small amount of games.
If all of your teammates were same in your games it might be. Imo if you have lower than 40% winrate in long run with certain hero you are doing something wrong. 
Mercy, it's probably your positioning or the teammate issues. Remember when playing Mercy you really only have the effective fire power of 5 players as oppose to the other healers who bring a little more to the team fight. I say positioning is probably not the best because the moment you die the fight is a loss and it's very easy to bait the average Mercy into Guardian Angel-ing into a bad position where she's an easy kill.


Ana is the most difficult healer to play because she requires REALLY keen game sense. It's likely you're running her in situations where she isn't as effective. For example, team comps that don't have much synergy with nano boost, or going against comps that are either too shield heavy/mobile (vertically) to land good biotic grenades.


It seems like you're aren't the best at being the "main" heal, Zen/Lucio are kind of passive healing that you don't really need to concentrate much on.
I'm paraphrasing but this is something I read on here a couple weeks ago. 

Including for bad luck regarding trolls/leavers/one sided games, the lowest your win% should go is about 46%. Any lower and it most likely indicates poor performance. Reversely one could be average and with good luck get to about 54% winrate. Any higher and it most likely indicates better than average performance.

So you could be average at mercy and ana and just have bad luck, you could also have good luck with lucio. Regarding your zenyatta winrate, you are probably more skilled than average with him in your current sr. That is 6% above the luck margin. 

Take it with a grain of salt, nobody really knows, but it sounded accurate to me. 
Truly depends on numerous variables. For instance soldier is my best hero but I try to play him less and I try to always wait for the team to start to take shape before picking. If the game  goes very poorly with no chance of winning or very low making then I'll switch to try to carry. When a team has already thrown in the towel then it's going to be hard to win. I had like 90% win on Lucio and zen but that was probably because I was placed lower than I should have been and the matches were easier even though my Lucio isn't that great.

Other variable could be that your bad at main heal mercy /Ana and that dropped your mmr giving you easier games while allowing some one else to main heal while you play lucio/zen.
Pretty much. I primarily play Zen (70% win rate last season with about 20 hours), dva (60% win rate) and then used to fill with mercy (40% win rate) if I decided I couldn't solo heal with zen, but found myself ping ponging around mid gold. 

I decided to stop playing mercy even if it meant solo healing with zen. I climbed really easily to plat and maintained the 70% win rate. This even surprised me. 

At mid to low ranks your own skill with a character appears to matter hugely more than what is subjectively the right answer (using zen to solo heal appears idiocy, in theory).  So it might be worth picking your two healers with the better win rate if you want to climb.

Having said that 47% is not too bad so might be worth posting a vod to see if someone can give you that crucial tip to swing that extra 4% win rate.
After about a hundred games on that hero yes.
in competitive, yes. I recall a few months back there was an overwatch study done, that found win percentage on the current hero you're playing correlates directly with your likelihood to win the given match; If one team's current-hero winrates averages to 6% or more above the enemy's average, it correlates to a much higher chance of winning the match.

That said, understand the context of winrate, and understand winrate should not be your sole means of choosing which hero to play in a match. I played mostly Winston this past season and have a 67% winrate on him, but a big part of that winrate is I know exactly when Winston will or won't work in a given situation; Just because I have a high winrate on Winston, doesn't mean I should play him against a team with both a bastion and reaper. https://xkcd.com/795/
Not really.  The thing win % doesn't take into account is switching because you are getting steamrolled.
Oh true. I should have mentioned, i've only really played QP/Comp with those healers. 

I use other heroes for arcade, etc. 
So with my number of hours then, I just suck at Ana/Mercy? 

I was thinking certain factors could skew it. Like for example, I often choose Mercy/Ana, when my team has no other healers... So maybe the reason my win percentage sucks is because I lose 53% of games where my team has one healer? lol

Edit: grammar/clarity 
But I've played 40-60 hours with each of those four, which is quite a bit
Really? I feel like Ana is the easiest healer. Two get out of jail free cards and her healing turns instantly to damage without changing weapons. I'm a shit support but maybe that's why I like Ana. Sleep dart some bitch tea bag and kill. Miss your dart? Throw grenade healself and damage enemy. Also the projectile seems huge and so easy to heal people far away. 
Well I mean, it does. It's how you can have 98% win rates in 30 minutes of total play time. They've got winning minutes, in games you won, and losing minutes, in games you lost, and divide the winning minutes by the total.

If I played 28 minutes in 2 games on Hanzo and we won, and I played 2 minutes in one game that we lost, my win percentage would be 93%, not 66%. 

So yeah, adding 2 minutes of time to Zarya and 15 to  carry on Reinhardt per game isn't going to boost your 25% Zarya win rate over 20 hours very quickly. 
You would have to do a complete analysis that included stats, throwers, skill level of opponents vs teammates. But I'd say there's probably a 3-5% margin where you can say you don't impact the game significantly either way. So from about 47%-53%, might as well all be 50%. 

Edit: and yo can't blame your team I had a 60% winrate frequently solo healing as lucio.
I usually solo heal as Mercy, and my win rate with her is above 60%. You're probably just not as comfortable with the positioning required for Mercy or Ana, and that's affecting the healing you put out, and your ability to swing a game.
if you have a 60% win rate with zenyatta over 40-60 hours, why even ask? play him if you like him and you will climb
Easiest if you have the aim
> Two get out of jail free cards

One of which is one of hardest skill to land in the game and the other isn't really a get out of jail. She's also the only who one who requires aim to heal.
I say she's the most difficult because she's the only one that requires mechanical skill to heal (and to land those sleep darts) and as I said she requires a high level of game sense. Being able to land reflex sleep darts on an ult-ing Genji, knowing when to play in a more offensive capacity and when to switch back to support, ult tracking of both your teammates and your enemy and knowing who to give your boost to. Yes, when you're skilled with her, she feels light and breezy, but if you look at her when she was release people thought she was the worse healer because of the healers she had the highest skill ceiling.
That's not quite what I mean...  Do you have "go to" heroes?  These are likely to suffer stat-wise when you switch to them while trying to turn a lemon of a game around.

Let's say you normally soldier main but just happen to be playing Mercy because no one picks a healer.   The enemy Pharah is completely crushing your team and your soldier isn't getting it done.  You lose the first round really badly and really quickly.   Second round, you convince someone to switch and you go soldier.  The team does pretty well but not nearly as fast as the other team's first round.  So you have a significant time disadvantage going into the tiebreaker and you lose the match. 

Now minutes-wise, you had a lot of time on soldier and very little as Mercy.  However, the loss can really be mostly credited to that first round and getting badly steamrolled while you were playing Mercy.

In other words, you are taking a lot of minutes as a loss as soldier but it wasn't really your soldier play that was at fault.   So how useful is win % in that scenario?

Similarly, Do you switch heroes if you lose a teammate?  If so, then the loss is not a reflection of the hero you choose but of the circumstances that made you choose it. 

That's not to say it's entirely useless but it's less useful than you would think at first glance and  you should take it with a grain of salt. 
Any good guides on positioning you know of? 
Unfortunately no. I've just been playing Mercy for about 60 hours, and her style resonated with me. I prefer to heal with her and Zenyatta, with some Ana occasionally thrown in.

One big thing though, is making sure you can use guardian angel to escape from people. You need to be spread out enough that you can dash to people, but not too far away that you're an easy pick for a genji or tracer. As other people have said, change your ga settings to where you can cancel the dash part way through. Mercy is easy to kill on her own, but if your team is spread out, and you keep an eye on where the enemy is, she's nearly impossible to catch. I've managed to dodge an ulting Genji because he was so focused on me that he didn't cut down my teammates, who were spread out perfectly (like in a triangle kind of position, so I could dash to one, then another, without having to go through the genji chasing me).

Mercy's positioning is somewhat dependent on her teammates, as you can only fly to them for escape. Some games, you just can't get away, and a Zenyatta may be a better choice because you can at least kill the flanker before they kill you.

Smoothing out your aim.
I feel my aim isn't smooth. When using aim hero I will usually flick off the target on the way usually making a shape like an 'L'. I think whats happening is when i aim my thumb is knocking my mouse off to the side but the way I [grip my mouse](https://gyazo.com/c9b49aecda4752efc5c34fe77f8b2bc2) I don't there is a solution to fix that. When i play McCree I never usually miss by a large margin its usually pixels or basically very close to the target. 
Well, i used to struggle with aim a lot, but practicing on aim hero actually took my aim to a new level, with time i got used to a different mouse grip, nut it came naturally, if you phocus too much on these tiny details about aiming, it only gets wors
Sens?
Direct image link for OP https://i.gyazo.com/c9b49aecda4752efc5c34fe77f8b2bc2.png so you don't have to load the gyazo webpage first

~~gyazo in 2017 *DansGame*~~   
Are your flicks falling short or overshooting?

Are you flicking to the target or to the lead?

In a persistent tracking pattern do you trail or lead the target in your most natural sliding motion?

Personally, I've found 450 DPI do be slightly more accurate for flicks at 8 sens, but you should look into 7 - 7.5 and do more strafe "flicks" which is using the counter directional momentum to center your shots.
your sens might be too high if you can't be smooth, you could also try a palm grip for more stability
Wow, I know exactly what you are talking about, it's the mouse grip, same as u my natural mouse grip is not ideal esp. at low sens and have that L pattern problem, as others commented try to switch to palm grip even in windows to get used to it, for me changing to palm grip is more stable, consistent and lend more to arm movements instead of wrist, esp helps  for picking up mouse and recentering.
Aim hero is a waste of time. Just do custom games. If you're trying to get better in overwatch why are you doing stuff other than practicing overwatch?
This summer i grinded aim hero and have felt improvements. But i think its the two setups i have and I can't stay consistent to them.
400DPI - 8 sens. I don't know my mouse pad size buts its the razer glouith (wrong spelling) control large.
Palm grip? Can you show me a photo?
Aim Hero isn't a waste of time.     
It offers a method of improving raw mechanical aim through deliberate practice.  When you're using Aim Hero you aren't trying to gain a sense for Overwatch, you're simply training your hand coordination. You're learning how to move your mouse from point A to point B through muscle memory.     
You are making the conscious decision to ignore character models, maps, bullet spread, all of that.  

There's a point to be made about learning how to aim **in** Overwatch, but regardless of that many players will benefit immensely from Aim Hero.  Transitioning the benefits you gain in Aim Hero to Overwatch isn't hard.

I would try lowering it but I'm one of the weirdos that prefers very low sensitivity. That's about double my sensitivity and I would have issues with my aim. Higher is great for being super reactive but lower is better for aim. If you're making circles around a target rather than glueing to the head or body then your sense it too high if you're snapping or tracking ahead then it's too high. Idk how these pros in overwatch play with such a high sensitivity but I'm guessing it has to do with the amount of hours they throw at the game. Imo grip plays less of a role than people make it out to. What ever is naturally comfortable is perfect. Don't copy another grip just because your favorite player does it and now you have to awkwardly focus on your hand instead of your aim. I also think bots are the dumbest thing to improve your aim. Training bots and Ana  bots will only help you to aim at bots. People react to fire to throw off your aim and AD strafe. Bots are too predictable and a horrible way to learn to aim.
https://www.compsmag.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/202588da96861dddf280ece093fd2617-4-1024x737.png

Palm grip works differently depending on mouse shape and hand size, e.g., with my g403, i'm able to sort of pinch the back right of the mouse with my palm near my pinkie and then on the other side with my thumb which provides a lot of stability, then my ring finger  extends to the front right of the mouse and and applies pressure as well (pinkie finger kinda just floats and hangs out).

&nbsp;
With a death adder, the back of the mouse is too wide and the slop too gradual to pinch with the pinkie side of the palm like I do on the 403

Budget ancillary hardware?
I've been using the same keyboard and mouse that came with my computer that I bought about five years ago. Because my hardware has been holding me back, I've been using an xbox360 USB controller for overwatch. The results have been less than satisfactory. I'm a high school student, so I don't exactly have the money to invest in top-dollar hardware. Do you have any reccomandations on a keyboard and mouse that work for both the FPS and MOBA elements of Overwatch that aren't too pricey? My budget is around 200$ combined.Honestly, with $200 to spend, price isn't much of an issue at all. Most gaming peripherals are $40-$80 depending on quality. Shop around and see what you like. I use a lot of Logitech gear that's served me pretty well.
Have you been using a controller.. on your PC? Am I missing something?

The shittiest $5 mouse and keyboard combo from 2005 would be miles better than using a controller.

Anyways, with a $200 budget you could get an entry level cherry switch mechanical keyboard as well as a good gaming mouse. My Steelseries Apex M500 and Xtrify XG-M2 were less than that combined.
hardware swap reddit is a decent place to buy computer hardware from other users.

200$ is way more than enough to get top of the line stuff.

For example, g900 mouse goes for 60-80$ used. (I got one brand new for 80$). A corsair k70, a popular gaming keyboard, goes for 70$. 

But honestly, u could probly get a decent mouse and keyboard for ~100. 

Note:beware of scammers as u are trading with other people so do some research.

For $200 you can get excellent equipment. If you want to make sure you're spending your money as best as you can, I suggest you visit /r/MechanicalKeyboards and /r/MouseReview to check out what you would be comfortable with.  

Mind you, if you forego "gaming" marketing and accessories like RGB you can find a great price/performance balance.
My 5 year old prebuild trash pc could run ow smoothly. I just had to lower the settings and turned down the render scale. Other than that Im using a 15 bucks no name "gaming" keyboard and a razer deathadder. But in terms of mice you can get something better for less money probably, lot of people run logitech.

Whats probably more important than kbm is to get a mousepad which is big enough for your prefered sens. I got a ~20×30cm one from steelseries and it does its job well. 

Either way, if your hardware isnt atrocious t wont hold you back. You can get by just as well with low budget products. Anything better is nice to have but not a requirement.

Also, if you dont have any, headphones really help.
Like others have said, go check out the dedicated subreddits. 

If you're really on a budget, my recommendations are a Logitech g102/203 mouse and large cloth mousepad like the qck+ by steel series or hyperx fury 

To be honest pretty much any wired keyboard will do - I have mechanical keyboards ... too many of them but they mainly feel good to type on. You're keyboard isn't going to improve your gaming experience nearly as much as a decent mouse and mousepad will. Everyone has headphones of some sort so I won't mention that because it's probably low yield to go out and buy expensive audiophile or gaming headphones

If I was on a shoestring, I would go mouse and mousepad first, 144hz monitor and graphics card able to support that frame rate second and keyboard last.
For a mouse, try to get one with a high quality sensor. Price on mice can be really deceiving. I have a Logitech mouse that I use for playing certain games just because it has tons of extra buttons but I opt for a Zowie mouse for Overwatch because the sensor and ergonomics are much better for rapid movements. 

For a keyboard, it's a bit more subjective - if you can test out a few different types of mechanical keyboards. My personal favorite is brown switches. 

I also recommend getting a nice mousepad/mat. I think mousemats are worth it if you have desk space. I've had a Razer Goliathus Speed mat for about 4-5 years now and it's been good to me. I'm sure there are other decent ones out there, just happened to get mine on sale.

I personally use a Corsair K70 Lux RGB with brown switches for a keyboard. There's cheaper ones with less features but I got a nice deal on it. My mouse is a Zowie EC1-A. The EC1-A is on the bigger side. If the mouse and keyboard don't feel right immediately give it a few days. I couldn't stand using my Zowie mouse for the first few days but now I can't stand my other mouse, it's heavy and unwieldy for FPS gameplay by comparison.

3-5 seconds blackscreens when tabing out
So ive had a annoying problem recently when the new patch came out. Whenever i alt+tab my screen becomes black for a few seconds and then reappear again. Its an annoying problem and its only for overwatch.If you are playing in Fullscreen, I'd recommend switching to Windowed mode or Borderless Windowed if you are frequently alt-tabbing. Also make sure to turn off Game Mode and Game DVR in the Windows settings under Gaming just in case that is taking up any resources.
Use a dvi cable instead of hdmi

Solo Queueing in Bronze
I'm currently a bronze player, around 1000-1200. At the beginning of the season, I was solo queueing a lot, and I found it incredibly difficult to win.

For example, in one of my games, 5 others locked into Hanzo/DPS/Bastion. I asked in chat if anyone else wanted to heal with me, but no one said anything, so I went with Ana.

As soon as the game started (King's Row, Attack), the Soldier/Tracer just dove in through the choke without any warning. I tried to keep them healthy, but they were literally charging in blindly. The Bastion couldn't find a place to set up and the Hanzo got a pick or two but our team was too spread out do anything with it.

So after scrambling around for a while, a Soldier ult wipes us out clean. I tried to say in chat for the Hanzo/Tracer to try and get a pick on the backline, and then for us to dive in. No one responded in chat, and the Soldier just ran into combat again. We failed to take the point.

So on defense, I tried to tell our team to group up and not just charge into the enemy lines one by one, but pretty much everyone ignored me again. Our comp was pretty terrible, but again, there was just no interest in having a gameplan. We actually managed to hold them off for a decent while, until I got my ult, and I tried to communicate with the soldier to tell him I was going to nano him, but he went out of position and I had no good ult target. We lost the objective shortly after.


To be clear, I'm sure I made plenty of mistakes in game. My aim is far from perfect, and I was definitely out of position/making mistakes a lot of the time. But these kinds of games are SUPER reflective of the solo Q experience in bronze. There's no interest in making a gameplan, and everyone wants their DPS/hanzo even if we have no heals.

Is there any way to combat this? I've queued with a group of silvers/master and we've climbed super easily since we can at least make a gameplan. It seems like soloq is a lot harder.You're seeing obvious problems that you can do nothing to fix. You're wasting energy thinking about them. Invest your energy on detecting and fixing problems with your own decisions and game play.

If you can get yourself to a gold standard of play you will climb out of bronze very quickly, in spite of bad team mates. You can do this playing dps, tank, or support. Just fix your mistakes.

At S5, I was placed around 800sr and finished at my season high at 1800sr. What I basically did was flexed my characters (tanks or healers of course cause apparently everyone is a DPS main). Played mostly Dva, Winston and Ana respectively.

I climbed especially quick with Dva. Used my defense matrix to protect teammates endangered like if they got hooked by hog or frozen by a mei which is usually followed by them getting killed. Also managing your defense matrix is important to save your team from enemy's ults. 

My aim isn't the best but I'd like to think I have good game sense and that's what helped me climbed out. I'm sure with some good research (watching guides on youtube) you'd be able to rank up soon!

Goodluck mate

What's a good hero pool to have ready?
For context I am not very good. The last time I played was Season 2 with 1662 SR at the end of the season, so not only was I not very good back then, but I also haven't played in ages so I'm probably worse now.

Not really sure how to phrase my question, so hopefully it makes sense. Basically I'm wondering how many heroes I should be confident with. Should it be one of each role? Two of each role? More?

At the moment the heroes that I enjoy the most are:

* Zenyatta

* D.va

* Roadhog

* McCree

* Genji

And I absolutely hate playing Lucio, Mercy, and Reinhardt. I think Ana is fun, but the reliance on her aim to actually be able to consistently heal allies makes me a bit nervous to play her.

So... thoughts? Should I look for more heroes to get into? Different heroes to get into? Fewer? I don't want to end up getting into everyone and just be mediocre, but I also don't want to have such a narrow set of skills that I'm useless during some games.You can easily choose 2/2/2. Two dps, two healers, two tanks. That way you'll never not be able to choose one of your heroes.

You could even focus solely on tanks/healers, to reduce the pool and specialise more. Everyone locks dps. It's rare that tanks/supports get locked. In fact, it's never happened to me. Lol
Your current DPS pool is good enough to get you by so no need to worry about that. Pharah may be worth picking up as she is really strong at every rank  when paired with a Mercy and takes the right team comp and a lot of focus to defeat.

Right now, Winston and DVA are tanks you can pick against almost any lineup. They are both very mobile, can protect your own supports and deal with enemy snipers. From my experience, Winston is a solid solo tank as well. Balancing when you need to stay with your team and when you need to jump in and kill priority targets is key to their success. The reason I suggest Winston is because Hog and DVA (Hog more so than DVA) aren't as reliable at solo tanking.

Zen is a great support especially if you can correctly prioritize discord targets. He really is not sufficient at solo healing and since you don't like Mercy, it's important to get comfortable with Ana.  I've played her since release and I'm still not confident with my aim, but it's improved and yours will too. That being said, try the new Mercy as well when it releases as I think she'll be a solid solo healer.

Competitive play on ps4
Are there any other competitive tournaments/ ladders besides gamebattles for ps4? The gamebattles ladders mostly have teams only housing 3-5 players and we have a dedicated 6 that are looking for tournaments/ladders that are actually 6 vs 6. Any help would be greatly appreciated. I think it's called overgaurd or plus league they also have different leagues for different levels of players. Pm me if you'd like more info I can send you the organizers psn
Thanks for the info. I found them on twitter. Appreciate all the info I can get
Ohhh daaang it's Jovo!!!

Friday 'This Week I Learned' Thread - 2017, Thread #21
Hello OU,

Welcome to our weekly **This Week I Learned** thread. TWIL will be held every Friday and is used to showcase *anything* that you've learned the past week playing Overwatch.

> TWIL is a broad discussion thread, as long as your post is **Overwatch Related** it won't be removed. However, please be following our [Posting Guidelines](https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/about/rules).

*****

Visit our [Event Archive](https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/wiki/eventarchive) to view past discussions.
I learned where to take fights in relationship to health packs as Winston. That is, stand between the person you're zapping and the health pack, then back up onto the health pack once damaged a little. From there, you can leap on them or just walk forward and keep zapping depending on how fast they are. Denies them the health and keeps you topped up.
Sound barrier won't affect teammates in Winston's bubble.... I need to play more Lucio I guess.
TIL that on most koth maps, Reaper's teleport takes him exactly as far as an amped up speed boost would, so he should just save the ability if Lucio amps out of spawn at the beginning of the game
I learned you can't charge Orisa as Rein when she uses her self buff thing. 
I learned orisas buff isn't nearly as strong as I thought it would be, but regardless she is still very strong 
Orisas great for being a shield-breaking tank.  She can initiate an attack by breaking the shield and halting, but coordination is required and OW culture doesnt have this threaded in yet, so its hard.

She works fine on payload maps, as long as a few members will counter flankers.
Learned a couple of advanced mechanics as Winston:

1. You can block Rein's ult using bubble just by reacting to his voice line. The timing is tight, but doable if you are at the point where you are aware of when enemies are looking to ult. I've pulled it off twice in the last two days during comp. Rebind bubble to another key like RMB so you don't need one of your WASD fingers hovering over E.

2. If you jump and use Jump Pack right before you touch the ground, you'll actually hit the ground and bounce off. This means you'll deal the splash damage at your starting position instead of where you land which would be useful when you're jumping away from enemies. The downside is that you add extra time before you can leap away since you have to jump first and the bounce distance is a bit shorter than a regular Jump Pack. The execution is difficult and takes practice as well.
TURN OFF FUCKING VSYNC IT GIVES HORRIBLE MOUSE LAG AND GOD KNOWS HOW LONG I HAD IT ON DURING SEASON 5.
I learned where to take fights in relationship to health packs as Winston. That is, stand between the person you're zapping and the health pack, then back up onto the health pack once damaged a little. From there, you can leap on them or just walk forward and keep zapping depending on how fast they are. Denies them the health and keeps you topped up.
I've played Lucio quite a bit and I never noticed this, lol.
in a friendly winston's bubble? or enemy bubble?

also that may end up being more up to your teammate to quick scoot out of the bubble in that like half second window of still receiving it (assuming they know this)
Use reapers teleport almost exclusively to reach high ground, the slow speed of it coupled with the noise makes using it to get somewhere you could've ran to redundant
Fortify. Aye, it's CC immunity + 50% of self damage reduction.
she's also immune to boops by lucio and pharah, doomfist's charge, zarya's grav and mei's freeze.
The issue relies on her speed, low health and size. Orisa needs either another 100 armor or no speed decrease when firing
Oh, yes, it was. I main Orisa and her buffs made her playstyle a WHOLE lot different. The shield is huge now (almost twice as big, I believe?) and the increased bullet velocity definitely makes you feel the difference between old/new Orisa: you can push better, if you get a good halt you can 99% kill any 200 HP hero. You can push more consistently because of the increased damage output per second this buff gave her. It's almost the case of 'if you can make a pick, you get the point' now with her (in a team with minimal comms, at least). 


How else am I supposed to avoid screen tearing? D you know any way, because the screen tearing can ruin my experience as well.
Enemy Winston. It blocks LOS which Sound Barrier is applied by. 
Sometimes you can get across a choke without going into enemy LOS though. Saves you from taking loads of poke damage.
And it throws Rein down for a surprising amount of damage.
That's really good to know I haven't played her at all since she came out if just been sticking with my main guys 
I agree, I don't see why she's tied with Zarya for lowest health tank, and at least Zarya gets shield for half her health. If they'd just add another 50 health and 50 armor shed be much more compelling choice.
Even if they took away the slow-when-firing during fortify, it would help a lot.
The shield not moving is huge too. IMO she's pretty unplayable on attack. She just forces the engagement to be way too slow, it feels like every time you have to choose between poking for way too long or leaving her and her shield behind. 
Haha i can finally stop nagging my soldier/genji/hanzo/mcree about the enemy phara. No problem taking her down with the increase in ammo speed. Before the buff id be lucky to take out 50% of a pharas health before she got to me.
Use borderless window in video settings instead of fullscreen, "It appears exactly the same as full screen(no border) but uses Windows' built in screen buffer. You won't get any tearing, and it feels like there is no input lag, especially compared to regular vsync." - some [deleted] account on buildapc.
Yep, but if you can't manage to reach a high ground and just teleport 10m behind them on level ground, they'll all just turn around and focus you down. It's a stealth ability more than a movement ability
That was a glitch and has been removed. Now she's just like hitting a wall.
Great, thanks for the tip!
My bad. The wikia still says she deals 170 damage to him, I didn't realize it was out of date.

Does Mercy's damage buff improve Genji's dragonblade in the same way as a nano does?
I figure 120 damage from a slash plus 50 from a swift strike is 170. 30% on top of that is enough to kill a squishy right? Googling though, I can't find anybody discussing this so perhaps I'm misunderstanding. Yes. It buffs all damage outside of turrets and riptire. Maybe not DVas ult either but I'm not sure
Nano boost is 50% damage reduction and increase. Supercharger is 50% more damage. Mercy damage boost is always 30%. As far as I am aware, the game only uses 1 of the best damage boosts. *Because before you could stack these damage buffs and melt tanks, Blizzard didn't like that for how unbalanced it was. I think the same goes for Damage reduction also, as that was a problem with bastion's rework.* ( I could just be mis-remembering the former part though.)
It doesn't help kill 200hp heros, since easy swing does 120 damage normally, but it would mean it only takes two swings to kill someone 250hp, instead of two and a dash or 3 swings. Also helps if genji is focusing on a tank, or if there's a sound barrier to cut through.
If you nanoboost a dva after she uses her ult, her mec does more damage (1500). Nanoboosting before using it doesn't do anything.  I'm curious if mercy is the same way.
It only uses one of each. You can't have 2 mercy boosts, but you can have 3 different ones.
Supercharge Nanoed damage boosted turret bastion and melt tanks

EZ 
It uses them adding up each unique boost, zen applies to enemy not ally so it’s multiplicative
But slash, dash would kill a 200hp hero right? 
Sure is! Boosting baby D.Va increase the damage of her mech explosion.
Without any damage boosting, they'd have 30hp left after. 
Doesn't really matter unless you're bombing a nano'd roadhog 
OP's question was about *damage boost*
A regular hog can survive it now with Take a Breather, and Orisa can survive it if she's got Torb armor and a Sym shield. Also useful against Sound Barrier sometimes, still you're right, totally situational and not usually nessisary. 
Well all it takes is a right click for a split second. No need to hold it on her. 

How to beat attack / defense Widow on Gibraltar?
Every time I lose a competitive game on Watchpoint: Gibraltar, it's because they have a Widowmaker me and my team can't deal with. Literally every time, and I'm Diamond. On attack, they can just go behind enemy lines on a building / bridge and be 100% safe as their team pushes the payload, and on defense they're not that good until the last point where they can just camp the bridge for the whole game. How do I counter these spots? I've tried these.

* Going Winston and diving: Widowmaker gets healed, as her entire team shoots you as you are in an extremely unsafe position. If you try to protect your team from her using your shield, the map is too open, so your teammates *will* get picked one by one unless you literally yell at them for the entire match nonstop to stay in the shield.

* Going D.Va: Widowmaker just runs away and they're safe, and you can't get to her without basically just giving up your team.

* Going Pharah: Since the map has a massive amount of space, trying to get to her will more than likely get you sniped / focused down, making you a free pick and nothing more. The chances of getting to her are *even lower* if her ultimate is active.

* Going Reinhardt: Your shield won't protect your team, there is simply too much of your land visible to her for your shield to keep everyone safe at once. Same for Orisa.

* Going Tracer: All of Widowmaker's spots on this map involve height advantages, making getting to her take forever.

* Going Genji: You'll need to use your dash in order to get to her (You can't just climb, she is too far back) meaning trying to escape if she survives is practically guaranteed death.

So, what do I do? I'm sick of having to dread the other team pick Widowmaker and simply demolishing my team with absolutely no effort.The easiest way to counter a Widowmaker is to out-snipe them. If nobody on your team can play Widow, your best bet might be to just spam shields. It's extremely hard to make Widowmaker effective through more than one shield tank, especially when Orisa's involved.
I think you just need to harass the Widow. She can't hit shots with a monkey or dva in her face. If she is running away, you did your job. Just make sure that you safely retreat. It'll take some time for the Widow to set up again in which case you just repeat.

When I play Winston, try to use the bubble after you leap. Using it as a rein shield protects such little damage that it isn't even worth it.

 If the Widow is getting healed when you harass her, don't leave. You now have 2 high value targets that are out of the fight because they are dealing with you, one of them being a healer. 

If the Widow is getting peeled by the tanks, then bring the fight to them and don't give the Widow the long range advantage. Force her to get the long sightlines away from her team then harass her. 

If the Widow is actually carrying the match, with the entire team just supporting her, call for focus. Get a zen to discord her or a tracer to come with you on the dive. 
Best counter to a Widow is a Widow.

Also, spam shields or harass her and don't try to feed her, so stay behind cover etc
Orisa is extremely frustrating to play against, because she can just spam shields. They're huge, and easy to hide behind. I'll often swap from widow because I just can't see anyone who isn't behind a shield, and by the time the shield is broken, especially if there's also a Rein, she's got another one up.
I'm much lower rank than you, so take this with a grain of salt, but I've found Symmetra to be pretty useful for mitigating a Widowmaker without getting close. She needs LoS to your team, which means that you should be able to throw a photon barrier her way that will obscure your team for most of the travel time. And since she's far away, you can easily get 5 or more seconds out of the shield. You can also follow up the shield with orbs (maybe smaller ones while strafing, so you kind of fill her horizontal space). Might not kill her, but it can be enough to make her job difficult for a little bit / force her to move to another (hopefully less optimal) position, and you can focus on the 6v5 with the rest of her team in the meantime.
A baboon is an example of an Old World monkey, while a marmoset is an example of a New World monkey.

lvl 600, playing since beta, need advice on how to proceed.
Hi all,

As mentioned in the title, I'm around lvl 600, I'm playing since the beta and actually yes, I do love the game.

Coming from CS competitive I'm a highly competitive player, yet, my actual aiming skills on console are pretty standard just. As in: I can kill stuff eventually, but I'm not good with tracking, headshots and the like.

Hence, I actually focused on being a healer main (with flexing Rein if needed), as DPS I can play a fairly decent Junkrat.

I have good positioning, situational awareness, map knowledge and the like, basically, I'm good with everything not entirely "aim related" and I'm a massive teamplayer.

I was rank 63 in season 1, low diamond season 2-4...but dropped out of diamond to mid plat at the end of season 4 due to leavers and people generally not caring that much anymore. It was frustrating, but I thought it would be no problem to get back up again. I couldn't have been more wrong.

I did my placement matches a 2-3 weeks after S5 started. Had leavers in 4 of my games and got placed high gold. I was unable to get any higher than 2600 last season...

This seasons placement matches, I won 1 single game and got placed high gold again, I'm down to mid gold with 5 wins out of 20 matches played.

I get good SR for winning stuff and lose less for losing, so I'm not in a free fall, but it's incredibly frustrating to try and play a teamgame in an environment where people simply don't care about teamplay. Also, while the SR contribution is not that bad, considering the poor winrate, it's just no fun. 

It's no fun to constantly try to gather the team and see each and everyone of them run solo, it's no fun to see people throw because someone else picked a hero they don't like, it's not fun to see everyone spamming thank you because I'm the only healer and none of my 5 DPS is willing to play tank (while everyone apparently is aware of the fact that a having a tank would be way better).

It's no fun to end up with all gold medals as Lucio and lose the game.

I still don't tilt, I'm relaxed, I play to win....I'm just out of ideas on how to actually proceed, because the lower I drop, the more absurd things get.

I love playing healer but I (again) reached an SR range where everyone is just running around like headless chicken, no teamplay whatsoever, the most absurd team comps and the like. 

So, serious question: what do?
That is competitive overwatch. If youre not willing to play into the psychology of rallying the team then give it a break until blizard adresses it. Right now helping your team not tilt is half the game
I can tell you right now, your gamesense and awareness arent that good. People love to say that their aim is their biggest problem, but 90% of the time I find that it's just the easiest to measure deficiencies in.

Record a vod and post it for feedback. Experienced coaches will be able to spot problems that you wont even realize are problems. 

Just speaking from experience doing lots of vod reviews, most platinum-diamond players have two big problems: reading cooldowns and using cooldowns. 

**reading:** Teamfights are all about poke until a key cooldown is unavailable (zarya shield, ana nade, lucio amp, the like), and then you go hard agressive and dont stop until you're dead. What tools the enemy has available determines how capable they are of stopping you from doing what you want. 

**using:** Your job, no matter what hero you're on, is to make the enemy team as uncomfortable as possible as often as possible during every fight. I often see that players exert either continuous low-impact pressure (eg. poke and general spam) or try to go all in all the time, but are unable to actually get anything done because they get overwhelmed. Similar to how if they enemy has no cooldowns, you need to be in, if you DO have cooldowns, you also need to be in, and using them. The difference between a tracer with recall and without is MASSIVE - same with zarya shields, soldier heal, roadhog hook, winston shield, lucio amp, mei block/wall, etc. Use the tools you have at your disposal to maximize the effectiveness of your aggression, and realize that when you dont have them, you can afford to have lower impact temporarily.

Overwatch is unique in the fps world because cooldowns and ults play sucha critical role. If you ever feel like the enemy tracer is unkillable the enemy ana always sleeps you, thats because theyre using their cooldowns only when they will have significang impact on the fight. You dont sleep the reinhardt when the enemy is grouping in spawn because there's just no point.

Seriously, send me a vod review, I love doing them and I think ittl help. Hearing feedback on something as you see it is infinitely superior to just reading text, and really calls out any recurring problems in your play. 
I'm in the same boat. Very very similar situation. Get teammates is all I can suggest. Befriend them one at a time until you get people that will play in a favorable way and you have enough that some may be online when you are. Good luck. There are others out there.
I would play a hero you enjoy instead of filling.

I started off playing whatever the team needed me to. We don't have a tank? I go rein. Don't have a healer? I'm going mercy.

However, I just got tired of it. I wanted to play what I wanted to play. 

What I've started doing is picking what I want to play and then saying over coms that I will fill if we need it.

I feel like people become more cooperative when they know that at least one person is willing to change, so they fill. Often times leaving me to play the character I originally wanted to. 

As far as leavers go, there's not much you can do. 
Some tips I have though is to pay attention to the time of day.

If you're getting a lot of leavers in the morning but not later in the day, avoid playing in the mornings. 

Also, waiting a few minutes between a match every now and then helps a bit. Both to let you calm down a bit and to avoid any players you don't want on your team again. 
It is my strong belief that game sense, not aim, will take you to plat.  I believe you that your game sense is decent, but it's not where it needs to be for you to keep climbing.

I'm a low to mid master support main; I mostly play Mercy, but can switch to Zen, Lucio or even Sym (on offense to help with double shield choke) to help our team move forward.  Game sense is also being able to identify what is really hurting your team and call for the appropriate counter - it's knowing when to use your support ult, and it's understanding what is giving you the advantage in a fight.  

If you really have 5 people running around like headless chickens, play Lucio. 
I do try to rally the team. I use the "group up" radio call, I'm in voice and tell people to "please wait, don't run alone, let's group up". I compliment people on kills, I do make call outs, I (try to) keep an overall positive attitude, if I notice that I cannot do that I remain silent and just will do call outs.

I don't tell people what and how to play, but I "offer" to switch off the hero I'm playing if someone wants to play healer and I would cover tank then.

Thing is: people don't even bother to answer IF they are in the voice chat in the first place....(language barriers in the EU region might add to that).

> give it a break until blizard adresses it

did they say that they gonna address it?

Well,  not saying you are entirely wrong but having played cs for almost 2 decades and around 2k hours in dota2....and 600+ levels in ow...I feel like I have an at least decent game sense. 


Would love to post a vod though, unfortunately not possible on the xb1.

No matter which class I play, I often end up with all gold medals.

Last game I was playing Mercy in the first round,  was healing only, switched to Rein on attack, had the gold medal for damage and kills within 2 minutes, while I ended the match with 15 dmg blocked and still having the gold medal for heals from the first round.

I just don't know what to do anymore, people run away from me around 2 corners and scream "I need healing", when on rein people are everywhere just not behind (!) my shield (rather in front or next to it).

Today I've seen sniper d.vas, speed only Lucios,  tracers that were on a personal "suicide on winston throughout the entire game" mission, I played multiple games where my team thought that running junkrat, tracer and sombra is a valid tactic against pharmercy.



I mean, people didn't even care when  they died, the just  respawned and kept completely ignoring pharmercy.

I'm just completely out of ideas what to do.

Last season I got accused a few times  of having de-ranked  on purpose....After just yet another round on Al golds lucio. too bad, my team tends to be everywhere, just not near the objective ....:(
The main problem is language barriers.  I befriended  a few guys last season, unfortunately not a single  one stayed longer on my friendlist than one game. Either people didn't want to join party chat, or joined party chat but were not actually speaking or were massive flamers and screaming when things didn't go their way, others were talking way too much about everything just not game related stuff.

Given the fact people hardly join team chat you never know who actually is on the other end when you send them a friend request and it's just tiresome to grind through all of this.

When I join a match in cs go I actually always have people in voicechat, no matter how broken their english is, they at least try.
Well, I do love playing Hanzo, I'm decent with him, but as said, I'm highly afraid that people will then just blame me for the loss, even when I end the match with a 10:1 KDR and constantly have been killing the enemy healers and squishies.

I had that once. No one else was picking healer/ tank. I initially was Mercy with 5 DPS, but no one was picking tank. So I switched to Rein, hoping that someone would fill healer. No one did. Then I picked Hanzo and everyone started to spam "thank you", ended the matches with all gold medals for kills/ objective kills/ dmg/ objective time, 40+ kills but we lost anyways since no one ever even bothered to play the objective. 

People pmed me after and acted like "tks for the loss faggot" ...and I'm pretty sure they reported me too.

The thing is: I actually love OW when it's played right, it's a real gem, but that does hardly happen nowadays.
No, and theyre probably not. The only way they could ever fix it is to make roll queues to avoid the no healer no tank problem, but that is something that cant happen. 
I hear teamwork is just worse in EU than NA.


If it bothers you I wouldn't play, pick up PUBG or something.
This guy gave you a great reply, read it carefully and think. Your game sense from those other games doesn't necessarily translate particularly well. We are just trying to help here. The management of cooldowns, ults, and WHEN to be fighting is not a clear cut thing, it's possibly the most unique/critical skill for ranking up above where you are.
If you're decent with hanzo, I'd say just play him and mute the toxic people. Let your skills do the talking 

I get what you mean. Overwatch is a fun and diverse game, but getting 5 other people to work together is hard if no one wants to cooperate 
It's not released on the xb1 yet, but will deformiert to do once it's out...but pubg isn't a team game either, is it?
Yes,  at the same time I had no problems whatsoever for 4 seasons straight, mostly because I could rely on my teammates to actually know what they are doing and I could be sure that there is some teamplay involved.

half my losses today were to people giving up after a bad first round, then switching to hanzo or widow and sitting it out.  I ended with ALL gold medals as lucio twice today, in groups with 5 dps.

ult Management is a good point though: I had multiple teammates cast their ults today when there wasn't even an enemy around or to selfdefend against a single player.

the other game we have 15 seconds left to cap first point in 2 cp, I tell people to get ready because I will soundbarrier and speed boost.  so I do, then half my team, including our reinhardt turns around to chase the enemy tracer to our spawn.


and yes, this all happened today.

My question rather is:

* should I stay on healer/ tank

* should I instalock dps myself


It can be if you group up with someone, or the team can find you someone to duo with. Can make a squad out of 4 people too all working together.
My answer is you need to work on yourself. You're not looking at yourself for improvement. Your entire reply just consisted of things YOU HAVE NO CONTROL over. You need to work on yourself. What your teammates do should not even be on your mind 99% of the time you lose unless you  Aren't completely free of blame. 


You could've done something. What you could've done better should be what's on your mind.blaming teammates doesn't mean anything or help whatsoever. 

There are games where it doesn't matter even if you lay better. It will happen no matter what. That's just something you gotta deal with and move on with your life.



You need to find all the mistakes you are making. There is a reason higher ranked players are higher and it isn't because they're just lucky and get better teams. It's because they make less mistakes and have better playmaking abilities. 


You make mistakes. Post a vod and people can help find out what the mistakes are and how to fix them. Then it's up to you.

You aren't listening to advice. Did you post just to rant and get pity or do you want to improve? Stop blaming your teammates, seriously. Only thing I have to add is that if you think you aren't having enough impact on the game play either Zen or Zarya. They have huge impact without being overly aim reliant. 
So tell me what I could have done. Tell me what I'm supposed to do, when my team is running Genji, Sombra, Tracer, Junkrat against Pharmercy?

Hell, I even did get "reported" for switching off healer and go S76 to deal with the enemy Pharmercy. Apparently, I'm everyones healing slave.

What am I supposed to do when someone picks Hanzo,then another guy starts to spam "thank you" and picks Widow and the game is over before the match even has started?

What am I supposed to do when the enemy team is running Winston and my Genji and Tracer are so mad at him that they constantly try to solo him?

I was playing in diamond for 4 seasons straight, without ANY problems. 63 in S1, low/ middish diamond season 2-4.... so most likely I got carried for around 500+ levels?

I'm not saying I would be a master player, nor am I saying that I would make no mistakes.


>  Your entire reply just consisted of things YOU HAVE NO CONTROL over.

Yes, this pretty much is my problem.

I'm not good with DPS and I cannot say that I would enjoy DPS that much. I'm a healer/ tank main and I love(d) covering those roles. ...but right now, there hardly ever is a reason to play healer because people hardly ever team up, there hardly ever is a tank.

So the question is: keep playing support, or instalock DPS myself no matter what?
I cannot solo heal real good as Zen, I as well can go on a more mobile DPS then. I love playing Zen but I highly dislike his lack of mobility.

Zarya is fun, but when the enemy is running Bastion/ Rein...we need a Rein or at least Orisa too.

>  Stop blaming your teammates, 

I bet my teammates would do good even if they at least would team up, communicate or care in the first place.

The major problem I have is that I'm trying to play the game "as intended" in an environment where hardly anyone is caring about anyone but themselves in the first place.

I constantly end up with 5 DPS, or 6 DPS when I chose to pick DPS myself. I cannot play tank when there is no healer on the team, there hardly is a point to play healer when there is no tank in the team (and everyone just keeps running his own directions).
you play whichever one you're better at and whichever one fits your goals.


YOu can't do anything about those situations but I guarantee those fucking situations dont happen every single game. Prove that it does and fine you can't do anything just give up you're the unluckiest human being on the planet.


If you think there is no  reason to play a healer or tank and you dont like DPS, stop playing the fucking game.

there's no helping you.

Post some fucking vods or get out

fucking pointless man jesus you completely ignored everything I said to help you and then repeated all the bullshit I told you to forget.
I'm only a low diamond zen. However I'm 100% sure I could solo carry out of bronze and silver and probably gold. Where are you placed? Cos you can too if you're good enough. 

How to learn to play Tracer to maximum effectiveness?
I'm pretty new to this game (level 15) and I'm still learning all the heroes. So far, I've begun to take a liking to Tracer. I think she's the hero I want to get good at, but not one trick.

I've seen that Tracer can hard carry well, so I want to learn how to play her to have a large impact on the game. I'm probably going to be solo queueing competitive, so being able to carry seems helpful.

What are some of your tips for playing Tracer? Also, are there any good streamers or YouTubers who play her or have good guides on her?Adderall
watch what good tracers do, try replicating it, you'll quickly see what you can and cannot do

the rest is then applying what you learned to get the maximum amount of picks with the least amount of "suicide runs"

some basic things

never blink in, use it to get out so you can always keep your recall for when you take damage

wait until the enemy is caught up with your team, no use going in when 5 people turn around chasing you (unless your sacrifice allows your team to cap)

don't worry too much about sticking your bombs on healers, just blow up tanks, the hard sticks are something you can do when you're more experienced

never run head on towards an enemy, that's sure death

never use more than 2 blinks at once

learn all the maps and gaps you can blink across so you can surprise the enemy

train your aim, excessively. you only have a limited time window when going in, make sure things die when you do (by focusing people being already shot at, or having good enough aim to oneclip <=200 hp heroes most of the time)

train doing 180° turns and blinking parallel to your enemy while at the same time shifting your aim so you stay the whole time on your target

play. play. play.
Watching videos of pro tracers definitely won't hurt you, but they're pretty hard to analyze as there are so many little things that pro players do that make them exceptional. 

However, how you practice on your own is how you will get better as a player.

1. Never blink or run straight towards a team, always engage form unexpected angles. 

2. Even if you see an enemy, wait till you have proper spacing to fire. What I mean by this is don't reveal your position to an enemy by shooting at them from far away where you will do very little damage. Once you get closer, then fire at the enemy.

3. Learn spacing. Tracer has very low damage from far away so you will want to get to within medium - short range of the enemy. However, if you get too close it will be impossible to aim and hit them because they will move across your screen so fast. 

4. Pulse bomb will not always get you kills . Sticking bombs into the back of tanks is your best bet until you get better at sticking smaller targets. Tanks will often walk back into their team and blow up a team mate or 2. 

5. Don't try to kill the whole team. There's a reason tracer is a hardcore flanker. She doesn't have the ability to initiate a fight and put in a bunch of damage against the enemy. She's much better at taking out healers and finishing up kills. If your team never initiates a fight then you can't do much by yourself.

6. Practice Practice Practice. Tracer is a hero that takes lots of time to learn and maintain your skill with so don't get frustrated if you don't improve quickly. Tracer is also very aim dependent so spend time focusing on tracking targets while blinking around. The more you practice the better your aim will be.

Have fun with it

Credentials: 3000 sr Diamond player who has over 700 hrs in game time and plays on an organized Diamond - Master level  6-stack team. 


I watch Dibz. He streams regularly and posts games in his YouTube. The vids r great cuz he points out mistakes on his screen and things you do you be a about to do. It's helpful
If you're looking for streamers, the best pro in NA is EFFECT. He plays for team Envy and has mastered the hero. He is Korean though, so he doesn't really talk much. GrimReality on Immortals is also top in NA. I play tracer a lot (albeit at gold) and just make sure you stay alive. Recall is such a good ability because you heal and disengage, so know when to use it, and when to just run to a healer. Also learn to manage blinks. I've heard a lot of people say that you always want 1 blink saved mid fight just in case, so you aren't forced to recall. With tracer you should either be annoying the tanks to get ult charge, or picking off the supports. One risky play I enjoy making is to kill dva when she self destructs her mech. There is some time before the mech blows up that you could get some damage in. Then before she gets back in, run back and finish the job. 
> don't worry too much about sticking your bombs on healers, just blow up tanks, the hard sticks are something you can do when you're more experienced

I'm gonna have to disagree with this one; if you only take the easy shots, you'll never improve.
using more than 2 blinks at once is ok; blinking through the enemy, then quickly blinking back is enough to disorient them while keeping your aim normal
I'm going to agree with you both. Go for healer picks if you can but don't feel bad if you have to ult someone else down
Yeah, p. much this

Tracking vs Flicking
Now, I know both are important in playing the game and being able to use both in a game greatly increases your effectiveness as a teammate but can some heroes by played without the other but still be able to contribute to the team? I play heroes that require more tracking, as i feel I have ok accuracy with heroes like Tracer, Soldier, Sombra Dva and Zarya. But I would love to learn and take McCree and Widowmaker into comp, but I know these two require much more in terms of flicking than tracking. 


Can I play these heroes with more tracking than flicking and slowly attempt to assimilate flicking into my gameplay, but still be contributing to my team?Yes sure, that's what I did as well. Also, aiming isn't all that different with McCree and Widow. It's not like you're gonna transition from smooth tracking to wild half screen flicks when picking them up. What I do is I try to track my targets as I would playing Soldier or Tracer but then make little microflicks right before I shoot. This worked out pretty well for me and I'm now actually a lot more comfortable playing McCree than playing Soldier.

I had a harder time learning to aim with Widow, but I wouldn't say that aiming with her is harder. Some people say the exact opposite, that aiming with Widow felt more natural and that they feel more lost with McCree. But I guess that depends on your personal playstyle
 You can track with McCree but you need flicks too. Also you can only use flicking with mccree obsessively. You have to flick with hanzo because your shoot is a projectile and you need to pinpoint the direction of enemy just before releasing an arrow which makes you flick. In some cases you will find yourself tracking an enemy if he is on your field of view all the time with widow but you will have to flick too because you don't have the time to track an enemy head hit box which happens to appear around a random corner for a few milliseconds. In the end,  it depends on a lot of paramteres. 
Search IDDQD on youtube and watch some of the videos he's posted on his channel. He is the best mccree in the pro scene and you will never seem him use flickshots. He uses tracking exclusively. Tracking has and always will be more consistent than flicking. Most pros that flick use tracking to keep the enemy close to their crosshair to make the flick required to make the shot as small as possible. The longer the flick the less consistent it will be.
Flicking should ideally be kept to a minimum unless you're some sort of 14 year old God of reflexes. Most of McCree's threat is from flash bang. And you can have average aim with widow as long as you take the proper angles

Silver/Gold Rein Skills didn't translate to Diamond
I started playing in season 4. I was placed low gold but quickly dropped into silver and at one point even bronze. I pushed through and played probably 50 hours on Reinhardt alone. He quickly became my favorite hero and I was able to climb all the way back to Gold that season. Back then I felt very good on Rein; like I was actually making a difference on the game.

Fast forward, Rein was gutted for a few months and so I picked up Winston and was able to climb all the way to diamond during season 5. Then near the end of season 5 they finally fixed most of poor Reins issues and I was pretty excited to finally be able to play my favorite character again!

Well, it has been pretty bad ever since then. I haven't been able to win even 50% of my games since i picked him up again. It is just so frustrating but I can't figure out why it has been so difficult. I feel like the 70+ hours i have on Rein at this point have been wasted.

So, what are the main differences between using Rein in Silver and Gold and using him in the higher ranks? What should i be focusing on in order to improve my Rein in diamond and higher? Are there situations where Rein is just not a good choice and Winston would be better?

Thank youYou gotta play catchup with rein if you want to play him at the same level as your winston. While of course there are many games where rein is not the best pick, he can certainly wreck at all ranks if you get creative with his mechanics. 

You need to be patient most importantly, and spend some time watching high level reinhardt play, and try to learn as much as you can from it. If you can learn one character at diamond, you can learn others at that rank as well. You just need to give it time and understand it wont come immediately, but it will.
Thanks man! Do you have any suggested streamers to watch? The only I know is numblocked. Yeah it feels like it I am just trash at him even though I know I was pretty decent at him! 
I'm not sure as i do not play reinhardt, but 

https://www.twitch.tv/moonmoon_ow
https://www.twitch.tv/arcadum

These two apparently are master rank+ reinhardt players, if you can catch them while they are playing OW.
Cloneman16 on twitch is a very talented rein main
You can watch xQc's stream. His tilting is kind of a meme at this point, but he's a very good professional main tank player
Superplouk is another very good Reinhardt and tank player.

Why do I suck as Pharah so much
I am having a issue with playing Pharah at low plat high gold level. I feel like if I can't play without a mercy pocketing me because I end up taking too much damage. Do you guys have any tips that would allow me to take less damage when diving in or should I just git gud?hard to say without seeing your matches
Play farther back first and foremost. Don't give the DPS like McCree an easy go of it. 

and make sure you have something to dip back and forth behind. Especially walls that you can pop over and drop back behind.  Lijang is great for this. 
You still have to hug walls like any other character, flying high but still out in the open doesn't give you much security. Just a tip for most pharahs, although idk if it applies to you. If you don't do that, you should start 
It's a lot harder for a team to look up and shoot at you if they're already engaged in shooting at someone else. This means you need to be out of people's minds until you're diving them (practise blasting yourself towards people while scoring direct hits). And watch all the valkia guides.
I usually only play Phara on attack but here goes: 

You usually want to stay on the ground while trying to get through a choke. If you use your rocket jump before getting past the choke you'll only die instantly. Unless you're being pocketed by a mercy AND have an orb on you. But that won't happen much.

When your team has gotten through the choke try to use a flank route to either; get parallel to your teams front line, or to get fully behind the enemy. At this point you can use your rocket jump. 

Usually what you want to do is get completely over the enemy in the sky and wait a few seconds to predict their route; it's a lot easier to hit rockets that way. I'm sure you're aware of this, but Phara's rockets knock enemies up and in the most logical direction(directly away from the blast zone). You can use This to your advantage to predict where your enemy's  movements will be, and also plan ahead to where you want to shoot your next rocket.

If you encounter a very good soldier or mccree, just stay on the ground. Your team will instantly lose a lot of pressure you don't have air superiority. Ground Phara is actually super under rated and I don't know why people feel entitled to always stay in the air.
Oh and git. Gud. 

No more fun heroes to play
I used to have a lot of fun with Hog until he got nerfed. He is a bit viable again with the new buff but he is just frustrating. You land a sick hook Genji or Pharah and they get to escape.

I picked up D. Va after because everyone said she is strong. The only satisfaction dva gives is when you eat a grav, Mei ult, tracer bomb... Etc. Now you can't do that. Any decent player will count until you use the 2 second matrix and then press Q.

I played a lot of Rein. He is fun. Nothing is more badass than hammering heroes like your Chris brown (Jk Jk) however I played waaay to much Rein. And when enemy team doesn't have a Rein it gets boring.

I picked up doomfist after I did really good with him in qp (#850 on pc based on overbuff) however I tried him in comp this season and did Nth but feed I think it's because of the right click nerf.

Anyway the point of this post is to ask which heroes are the most fun in your opinion?
 Winston is cool but he is easily countered. I played 2 seasons as a meta bitch picking dva when she was OP and dive was meta and hog when he was strong and deathball was the way to win. This is over. I want to have fun this season.If there aren't any heroes you find fun, then you're not going to have fun. Maybe you're burned out? If that could be the case, you could try taking a short break.
I find tracer fun due to her fast playstyle. Lucio too for his wall riding ability. I personally find Mei fun for the memes and bc I enjoy making other team miserable. Also I've been enjoying new hog bc vape nation. Although now I use hook on only damaged heroes mainly. 
Try Genji and practice with him. It's super satisfying when you get good. 
Sounds like you automatically rule out anyone who gets a nerf.


So you should like junkrat, having just been buffed a ton, maybe widow with the buff live now, maybe mercy once her change goes live.
Roadhog is making a come back. He's super effective when you hook a half health squishy. You can pretty much one shot them.  


Honestly I find mercy to be fun if you use and abuse GA and play aggressively versus playing the hide and heal version. If you play her aggressively she is much more entertaining and helpful versus just hiding in a hole. 
Mei is one of the hardest hero to play in the game so it will take time until I'm even decent with her. 
I will give it a shot though.
My friend said the same thing. Will try. 
The new mercy looks a lot of fun. Will give her a go for sure. 
Personally for me, she wasn't hard to pick up but I can see what you mean since she requires good game sense. I think once ppl get used to her alt fire she becomes very deadly. 

How do i get good at mercy?
Whenever i play mercy i just immediatly die whenever i try to heal anybody, I cant play zen cause i cant aim, same thing with ana, I suck at lucio since i cant wallride and have bad reactions So mercy is really the only support i'd be able to play decently but i just cant stay alive.

Tl:DR I cant say alive as mercy and cant play as any other supportI am by no means the best mercy there is but there are a few tips I've picked up in my fairly successful time in her current state. 

If you're dying easily you can probably work on line of sighting your team while not being seen by who they're attacking and taking damage from. I like to hide behind corners and if I can't I'll stand behind my biggest teammate. This, of course, is my advice if you're not trying to throw in some dps as well. 

Consciously alternate between damage boosting and healing - don't heal when you don't need to because that damage boost will really help out your team. 

Learn to play keep away with yourself if things get really sticky. If I'm somehow in the middle of a mosh pit I'll just fly to whoever is off to the side and keep away from the shooting. 

Another tip I learned from this sub is to really consider who you're reviving. There's the want to get a huge Rez and then there's the reality that even one member, given who they are, will change a team fight around. I think my style of play is to revive whoever I know has an ult or a tank if they died solo and it's enough to sway the battle. This style of play is rewarded moving forward to new mercy as well since she will only get the single rez. 

Tl;dr - stay out of sight unless you're trying to dps while paying attention to who is getting shot from where. Damage beam while not healing. Fly fly fly to your teammates to not be a stationary target. Rez to win the fight. 
Sounds like your positioning is a lil funky. Any chance you can record yourself playing?

Without much to go on, I can only give some fairly generic advice:

- Mercy's beam can extend pretty far, make use of this
- Maps are full of props/little rooms that can be used to cover Mercy at least partially
- Get used to GA'ing to someone, cancelling and hitting S so you can heal them from a distance
- Try to track enemy ults, ask yourself who on the enemy team hasn't ulted for a while and position accordingly. For example, if they've got Zarya, distance yourself from the team with
So, I recently reached an "aha" moment with Mercy in terms of staying alive and being slippery with GA. I'm definitely not _good_, but it's a notable improvement. 

I definitely recommend turning "toggle GA" off and "toggle beam connection" on. Holding down GA to fly to people takes some getting used to, but it allows you to get in range without getting right up in your teammates faces (and thus in danger). For me, toggling the beam connection instead of having to hold the button down all the time helps free up some brain space to keeping track of what's going on around me. Turning off the beam connection also takes some practice (point away from eligible targets and hit the button again), which is necessary to fly away if you have "GA prefers beam target" on. But, it works for me.

During the off-season (which I happened to also have off of work), I spent a lot of time playing Ana on attack and Mercy on defense in QP because I wanted to get competent at a "big" healer. In a comp match, I would definitely recommend talking if you're playing a vulnerable healer like Mercy, but I found that staying off comms in QP forced me to get better at keeping an eye on other teammates and where I could escape to. It was very frustrating and I died a lot and people were constantly spamming "need healing" when they'd done nothing to help me survive. (I switched to mystery heroes often to cool off.) But, when the season started again and I began playing with serious, communicative players again, I found that I was able to fly around and be "slippery" at a much higher level than before, without getting totally disoriented.

If you see somebody coming towards you with a movement ability (e.g. Winston leap), try to fly to a teammate against the direction of the ability. Also, try to get in the habit of defaulting to fleeing *towards* your teammates, instead of toward spawn. 
The most important thing you can do with mercy while healing is to ALWAYS be moving in a teamfight. If you are just healing small chip damage before a fight, you can stay behind a corner and peek to maintain the beam connection, but the instant a fight breaks out you have to be fast. Always note your team composition and see if you have a widow/pharah/someone who is positioned at a distance so you can fly to them. A lot of games i've played as mercy where we won were games where 2-3 people were on me in a wild goose chase, and because I was always dashing and taking unexpected routes through the map they wasted too much resources going after me.

Situational awareness is key. Don't forget that while you are healing and powering up people, you can look around you. Do that always so you can keep track of where your team is so you can fly to them and get out of danger.  

If you don't have that option, try and dart behind the person you're healing so they take the damage and realize you're under attack.

Another thing, never stop hopping. If you are on console, bind jump to L Trigger to free up your aiming thumb. Last, make use of your floating ability makes it harder to hit you.
Positioning is key with mercy. If you aren't positioning yourself correctly and using GA to fly between teammates you will get picked.
If you are getting killed to fast as Mercy then it seems like you too close to the front of the action. Don't try to heal 1 person surrounded by 3 people and the rest of the team is dead because that is just suicide for both of you. Use environment a lot like corners and walls to shield you from the enemies because the healing beam won't break for a couple of seconds. Also use your gun and blue beam liberally because if you are just healing and hiding for a 5 man rez you are not gonna be ready for the update. Watch some GM videos to see what I'm talking about. edited added a remark.
GA? HittingS?
Whenever i try to hide my teammates always go away from me so i cant really do that

Ill try ga'ing

I already do the fourth

I also cant record myself playing because im already at 30 fps and if i try to record it'll go down to powerpoint presentation levels.
Ah sorry - GA mean Guardian Angel, Mercy's shift/fly ability and S refers to the keyboard key that allows her to walk backwards 

Educational Streamers/YouTubers
I know of Skyline and at this point I've watched like 95% of his videos.

What I would *really* like is someone that maybe hosts in house tournaments and casts them with an educational perspective. I didn't realize how much I wanted this until I saw [this series of videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pdnu-LJQ7TY). Specifically the ones where the GM players aren't playing, but commentating instead. There's one guy that commentates who is so freaking informative it's insane (the one with the English(?) accent). The casting is super educational for someone who has little experience playing seriously and I'm pretty sure I could listen to that guy commentate for days.

Most of the streamers I watch aren't very educational. They one-trick with little budge and it gets a little frustrating to watch.

So, are there any super educational streamers or YouTubers I could watch/follow?Mendokusaii, Iddqd are some streamers I can think of. 
iostux or OAM are my faves atm.
I think the british guy you are talking about is stylosa. He has a series called overanalyzed, it's coaching players of different ranks. It's pretty good.
Nah, it's the guy commentating in the video I linked. I think his name is Cloud (he was playing Zenyatta in another one of those videos) but I don't really know if he streams or anything, and searching Cloud just gets Cloud9.

edit: oh I'm dumb his twitch was in the description. https://www.twitch.tv/cloud_overwatch
Overanalyzed is awful. He literally just picks a video and live commeteates it with barely any effort. Doesn't even bother watching it once before recording. 

I mean he does have some info obviously but he misses way more than he helps. Annoys me that he puts in so little effort. 
Yeah I really like the idea but a lot of his stuff is bad advice given the tier he's commentating. Also since he doesn't watch them before he'll commentate some stupid games people send in. 

Failed to connect to server?
For about the past 2 weeks I have been occasionally getting a "Failed to connect to server" error when queuing for quick play or competitive. It doesn't even show that I've found a game it just says "Failed to connect to server". It's not my internet because I'm usually on Discord at the same time and I have no connection issues with Discord. I found somewhere that disabling OneDrive solves the issue, so I did. I then played about 5 quick play matches and 2 placement matches without any issues so I thought the problem was solved. My third placement match though, the issue happened and I've now been suspended for 10 minutes. Has anyone else had this issue and if so have you found a way to fix it? This has to be on Blizzard's end right? I can't even finish my placement matches until this gets resolved because I don't want to risk getting placed lower simply because Blizzard won't fix their shit.I'd recommend posting on the actual blizzard forums for something like this. 

Do I get a high rank by 'farming' gold medals in my placement matches?
Let’s say I will only play Solider or any other DPS in my placements. 
Do I get a high rank by 'farming' gold medals with any dps /attackers in my placement matches then playing Mercy, Ana or Lucio?
I think, it was the case at the beginning of the game. Is it still true nowadays? 
(About me: I finished all seasons in low to mid plat, but I’m not a frequently player.)

Thanks for taking the time to read my thread (and answering my question).Your gameplay is compared to other players playing the same hero at your rank so no
Yes theortetically the placements are stat based. But think about this, your stats will be better almost every time on a winning game, so you STILL want to do your best to win which means playing smart and effectively. 

Basically, I doubt 'farming golds' playstyle would net you better stats than just 'playing your best'
Only if you also win.
Golds don't mean shit, your actual performance compared to others dose. Getting golds for the sake of golds does nothing.
Ah, ok. Thank you.

Plat is a hell hole which I can't escape
I'm around 2700 currently with a season high of 2859. So here's how I went up to where I got; I started out in Bronze. At the time I had a laptop where I got around 12-15 fps at 720p ultra low setting and I had no idea how I would ever get up. I never knew who I should really play so I was a Mei/Junkrat main. Then I built myself my first PC which I went widly overkill with and ended up costing around 2400€. From here on out i played much better and stopped playing Comp for a while to get used to having 175 fps more than previously. I also picked up Genji because my friend had been playing him and I felt he was my sort of playstyle. So I wanted to get into comp again after getting a few hours in on him and up i went. I climbed from 1300 to 2230 in one all-nighter and then I was stuck in bronze for the longer half of season 4. Finally I arrived in Platinum and from here on it became much more challenging.
I started to climb around 15 every win and losing 25 a loss, but I still managed to keep myself in low plat. Now im in middle-plat and I seriously dont know what to do. Generally I insta-lock dps (Mostly Genji and some McCree, both of which I am exceptional at and when my team does allow me to play Dps I average at 2 gold Metals a game. Now I know that that sounds bad bc i instalock, but normally I always say i'll switch if it doesnt work and I do to what my team wants. (If it makes sense) I dont flame and i think i have a good knowledge of the game as i watch VOD's a lot and my friend from earlier (Who's now in Masters) thinks I definitly know what I'm saying as in tactics.
Whenever get up there to around 1820, I start losing again and I cant get up further, ever. 
Can anyone me help? Its super frustrating!> Generally I instalock dps (Mostly Genji and Some Mccree, both of which I am exceptional at). 

Well tbh I think this mentality is what's holding you back. Remember that there is less room to improve if you already think like you are amazing at the game. But anyways, here's some more concrete stuff that may help you out:

-Watch your own gameplay! This is probably the most important thing ever to do. Overwatchdojo made a nice [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q_XVyHQ7KMw) on how to assess your gameplay. 

-Watch quality educational YTers like Skyline, Iostux, Overwatchdojo etc.

-Watch pro games, and/or high skilled players/streamers using [Iostux'  template](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aa61EG-4zw0)

-Watch your own gameplay! Seriously.

I'm not higher SR wise than you ('only' 2.9K+), so I don't know that these tips are necessarily accurate. Anyhow, here goes:

1. Expand your hero pool. Maining two DDs to the point that you can carry is great, but more often than not OW is a team game. Even IF you can carry, playing 1v6 will always be more difficult than playing 6v6. Learn to tank at least (you said you were good with Cree, so I'd say Zarya won't be too difficult to pick up, or Mei), or even support (Zenyatta can have huge impact in a game).

2. Do you play in a premade? If not, maybe start. If you can find friends who can play around your DD skills (a friend Zarya + a good Genji/Cree will team swipe often), you won't need to flex as much and can focus on 'only' being a DD.

3. Please don't emphasize medals. They can sometimes be somewhat of an indicator but more often than not they don't capture the game changing moments. Having gold on kills is nice, but if you are playing a hero like Genji, maybe your target priority is off (going for easy kills, for example), which can be useless (Mercy rez after you team swipe because you went for the easy kills instead of finding the hiding b!tch).

Hope maybe one of these tips helps. 
The last/first 100 SR on either side of a tier is ALWAYS the roughest part, because people are itching to get out of one tier or praying to not fall back into the previous tier.

> Its super frustrating!

That is why you're losing when you get there. In that range there are two types of mentality: the anxious/frustrated/frantic and the leveled/methodic/composed and you can guess who wins. On a DPS account (Tracer here!) I overcame 2900 - 3100 by keeping my cool and being VERY vocal about my positioning and who I was engaging on and my matches became almost effortless. I'd say "I'm flanking. Going on Rein" and in almost perfect timing the random Ana on our team gets a 5 man nade because I made the Rein turn. Flanking is about communicating because no one can see you to know what you're doing. So if you're going to play Genji that's going to be a huge boon for you.
Thanks man! Yeah I do play with a Zen main around my rank. I'm gonna try to expand my hero pool!

Question: Does 50% damage reduction on take a breather apply if Hog has been anti-healed?
It was always instant death to use take a breather right when Ana hit you with a nade, particularly because Hog couldn't move. Does anyone know whether the 50% damage reduction applies even if Hog is naded? If so, the anti-heal won't necessarily mean instant death anymore for Hog players. Still applies. Been playing him just now and still take reduced damage even when purple.
Don't know exactly but, I don't see why the nade would take the 50% damage reduction away. However, if this isn't the case, they should definitely change it. Anti-heals should only stop healing, not anything else.
It should since  that modifier is applied when he is using the ability, not when he is healing.
if ana nades you you'll take 50% less damage but you wont be able to heal yourself
The dmg reduction seems to still work, but I haven't actually tested tested it, just from how it's seemed in comp and QP
It still works. The nade only stops the character from healing, it does not stop any other effects from abilities that also heal. Also evidenced with Mei's CryoFreeze, which absorbs projectiles that hit it while active. She won't heal, but projectiles that hit it will still disappear.
I'm so confused here - Ana's made only blocks healing - therefore it would stop take a breather from healing hog but no effect on damage reduction. The more interesting question would be what happens when hog is discorded and then uses take a breather...
It shouldn't affect dmg red. as the nade itself only prevents health from being restored, not disabling any abilities which has healing as a property.
It would be a clusterfuck to give the hp returned from the breather have a special property of reducing damage rather than just giving a damage reduction to the ability for its duration. I'd be very surprised if it did but hey, Blizzard. 
Hmm, that's potentially really strong
Thanks for testing man
It does not take away the reduction. It's like Orisa's gold form

Source: Murdered an Ana last night doing 30 damage at a time I noticed exactly because I was curious myself
He would be right unkillable with any healer other than maybe Ana.
From programming point of view, the answer it: it shouldn't, unless they took extra steps to disable it.

If they took how they do it in other games (WoW, Diablo, HotS), then a single use of given ability has N effects, one of which is applying a given aura. In case of Roadhog, it probably has two effects now: a self-channeled heal and applying a damage reduction aura. Then you have negative auras (debuffs) that for exmaple reduce healing, like in case of Ana's grenade by 100%. Because her grenade is not a silence or interrupt, it in no way affects Roadhog ability to cast his ability. Because it also doesn't affect damage reduction buffs, allows the damage reduction to be applied normally, while the debuff only affects healing taken.

Of course this is just my speculation, but seeing how Blizzard likes to copy-paste things across the games and seeing it work for many years in their other games, I don't see a reason why it wouldn't work in this way here.
1v1 Road vs Junk is incredibly hard for junk. I think this is completely unbalanced as Junk has a high dps.
I think it's perfect
It's fine. I believe he doesn't self heal so a dmg reduction is fine. If he gets focused he'll get melted without the possibility of surviving because of the reduction *and* heals.

Edit: this is what happens when you Reddit in a hurry on mobile.
Hog? Any part of his kit really strong? 

I feel like you're calling for a nerf. 
It's good. In deathmatch I had some 1v1s against him and you just stand there DPsing him while he out-heals you and waits for hook to recharge. In many engages it just feels like he's invulnerable and you lose without making any mistakes.

He'll probably still be weak in standard games because he's still an ult battery and doesn't hold up to focus fire from a team. Things that aren't issues in deathmatch.
the buff is nice! I managed to have suicide a tracer when she ulted me. I just waddled over to her while taking a shot.
Then 1v1 genji vs Winston is also unbalanced. I mean winston is a tank and genji is a dps. Genji should win by that logic. Or maybe some duels you can't win as a dps...
I think if you come across a situation you feel is "unbalanced", it might just be time to switch heroes. This is a balance between 25 heroes and growing. This is a game about flexibility, which is why they have hero switching in it. You're bound to run into some heroes you just cant win against(this is assuming you're both at the same skill level). Besides that, Junkrat isnt a straight up duelist. His skill is in his mechanics and game sense. Bait out his take a breather, then go ham on him with grenade spam and mine combos
I mean, it's true of a lot of heroes as you'll learn by playing Deathmatch.  Sombra cannot kill Roadhog if he has Take a Breather up.  You have to hack him before he uses it, and of course, he's shooting at you the whole time.
Yeah, seems like just a nice quality of life detail
Don't reduce the dogs!
Roadhog's take a breather now takes up to 300 health from him and allows him to take up to 50% more damage.
I am a Junkrat main and before the Roadhog change I won close to every 1v1 against any Roadhog of my level, as long as I didn't get hooked. Now he can just heal and move, which makes him able to dodge the nades that would have killed him otherwise.
I think it's a straight up buff to his tanking ability. Which is a great move.

EDIT: I just noticed that you're the same commenter above who said, "that's potentially really strong." Quality of life changes are supposed to make characters feel more fluid and fun to play, without making them a stronger pick. The only example of this I can think of right now is Hanzo's bow holding the charged shot after a wall climb. While better for the player, it's not a strong enough change to be considered a buff, it's just a change that makes Hanzo feel more consistent and fluid.
You people really don't know what quality of life means
Lol my phone autocorrected
I'm aware man. Just making a joke. I think Hog is in an okay-ish spot now for what it's worth.
Have you tried perhaps getting good?
So then you're just upset that you can't kill Roadhog as easily as before. It has nothing to do with hog being OP then. You just cant adapt. You're most likely the guy that won't switch because "You've got gold damage". Atleast state a VALID point other than "Roadhog kills my main, he's too OP"
Reinhardt's new camera rotation while the shield is out is a good example of QoL.
Everyone likes to fit in and appear intelligent.
So you changed it to 'hog'?

Didn't you originally intend DMG? lol
It was a joke. I said it takes away health, not adds back health.
You play junkrat too?
Fuck. Yes I meant DMG.
Lol, didn't even notice, my bad. 
¯\\\_(ツ)\_/¯
BTW, know those feels. I use Google swipe keyboard on Android and have had some ridiculous word replacements
lol Its all right I don't think I phrased it very well.

What happens when you play comp with someone with a lower or higher SR
If you group with someone who has a significantly lower or higher SR than yourself, whos stats will the system use when matchmaking ?It's cancer. Higher player "must" be a hard carry dps for your team to win. 
Pretty sure it's an average that skews toward the higher person? 
Its average, meaning you need to carry more because one of your teammates is lower than the average rank of the match.

For an example, 4k ques with 3k so team average will be 3,5k. The 3k player will likely drag down the teams performance because enemy team has six 3,5k players. Though, the game tries to match similar duos against each other making it equal.
Depends on how much 'significant means'. It averages, skewed towards the higher SR person. The bigger the difference, the worse the results. For example if you're doing placements as a GM and queue with a silver and a gold friend, it'll match you against +- mid diamonds. The result isn't pretty. 
It'll take your average and place you there, but chances are you'll be at a 150 SR disadvantage on average to the other team because they're trying to de-incentivize boosting. One player at a much greater skill level can have such a great impact, the other team has to be a lot better to neutralize it. 

A masters and 5 golds will destroy 6 plats quickly. That's why a master and 5 golds (which would require the master to fall, but the point still stands) would be going against closer to 6 diamonds totally overwhelming most of the other team. 

It really bothers me because I can't play with my diamond friend and he can't take a game to have fun and not play his absolute best and we still win. He's got to go super carry mode or we'll get stomped. 
It'll try to put you in a game around the same rank as the higher SR partner. So if you're plat, and you queue with your diamond buddy, it'll put you into a diamond average game, most likely.
I absolutely would never recommend it. I screwed myself placing with a much better friend of mine and was way in over my head. 
I think it skews based on mmr to help stop smurfing. Not sure though. 
Okay I understand . Would the person with the lower SR again more ? 
So is awarded sr more than if you were in a normal plat game? 
Yes, the 4k player gains less and loses more while the 3,5k players gain/lose the normal amount.
Generally you get less SR from playing in a group anyways - so whatever bonus you might get from the harder games may be canceled out.
Oh wow, I didn't even notice less sr for grouped games. Is it a significant number or just a few? But yeah that makes sense, grouping can lead to easier games.
It's not a significant amount unless you're in a big group.

From what I know, the effect gets bigger the bigger your group is. A duo will get more SR than a 6-stack.
Most people choose not to play comp in large groups because losses are so punishing when you win so little SR.
Thanks! I figured people didn't want to group because of "harder games", but that makes sense. 
Why is this?

Carpe dramatic sens shift
So Carpe #1 used to use a 900 dpi and 3.12 in game sens
He switched his settings to 900 dpi and 8 sens.
Even though he has more than doubled his sensitivity (https://www.twitch.tv/carpe_ow) he still hits flick shots extremely accurately despite there, generally, being a learning curve to building up this muscle memory.

I'm not implying that hes cheating!
-------------------------------------------
I'm just wondering how he has adapted to this new sensitivity extremely fast and if I can myself implement this to learning general aim. Is it just his Natural ability and/or lots of fps experience?We all underestimate muscle memory way too much. 
Meanwhile I think Taimous sens is far too high
It's probably just experience transferring over. You still have the muscle memory to flick to different parts of the screen reliably, you just need to tone down those movements a bit.
Flick shots aren't as much "muscle memory" as much as people think. Our brain runs a calculation based on the speed the enemy is moving and the speed you move your crosshair. Being able to "flick" your crosshair at a consistent speed is the real muscle memory component of a flick shot. In the case of carpe he is already extremely good at making his mental calculation, all he had to do was get used to the increased speed of his crosshair. 
It's not hard to do, at least from my experience. Spent the better part of a year now learning to aim in Overwatch and I used to vary my sens quite a bit. Takes a few minutes to get used to a different sens (as long as it's not something like triple +/- the previous sens). The rest is fine tuning over the course of a few hours, and then a little more instinctual refining over the course of a week+
Ive changed sens pretty frequently and still hit flick head shots. In fact I find theres a placebo time period where you hit more shots after changing ur sens because ur concentrating more to adjust. In high, high stress situations it's definitely hit or miss tho.
i completely agree with this, i went from 1600 dpi 2.15(old mouse) ingame to 500 dpi 7 ingame to 500dpi to 6 ingame to 500dpi 5.13 then changed my dpi to 800 with 5.13 ingame and i always was able to land my shots, how? ... MUSCLE MEMORY
What's his sens then?
800/5, up from 2.75/800
800 DPI and 6 sens. 
Its 800/5 isnt it?

I am at a complete and total loss at what to do in Ranked.
Backstory, Placed at 2900 over the course of two days have dropped to 2600 with a ration of 1:5 (Win:Loss) and im at my wits end.

I'm Completely lost in what Im supposed to do anymore, we have good team comps (Standard 2-2-2 with rarely any off meta picks) while I'll do seemly good  (Talking very good damage and objective time with the Elims to back it up) and watch my team die around me more often then not, or be targeted so hard I can't do anything yet my team doesn't take the opportunity to commit to fights.

I'm not trying to blame my team, but after a certain point I need some explanation, and please don't give me the "The only common is you" because we all know thats not useful advice for ANYONE, Toxic players or Non-Toxic Players.

Please just someone explain to me what Im supposed to do.Well, what characters do you play? Which 2 tanks/healer/dps have been on your teams?
If you have been losing a lot you might want to take a break, and play some deathmath or a playing environment where you don't feel stressed or anxious.

Medals/elims mean nothing if you make crucial mistakes when it matters. A hanzo can be getting constant picks attacking a point but if he always gets sniped by the enemy widow before teamfights, what use is he to his team?

You don't want the "the only common variable is you", but what other kind of advice do you want? there is no secret to making your teammates do what you want them to. You can communicate on comms, but apart from that if they aren't doing well then it is on you to carry. It sounds a bit harsh but the only true and surefire way to climb and get better at the game is to stop worrying about what other people are doing, and making sure you are improving and playing the best that you can.
I dropped 500 sr last season and climbed back up to where I was. Just keep playing and get better. Sr doesn't mean anything if it's not consistent.
Firstly, you're playing competitive at literally the worst possible time. This is around the time you'll encounter the most random groups of people. Typically, I wait at least two weeks before touching my main.


Next, you're a DPS main... you and 90% of the rest of the Overwatch community. You also openly voiced your ineptitude with Tanks/Supports, so here's the problem with that. There are better DPS players than you at your rank. I check the stats of my team every game and when I see a McCree with a 60% win rate compared to my 54% and he has more hours than me, typically I give that up. In fact I suggest that he plays it. Sure it's nice when you get your DPS pick, but when it came at the cost of having other people play heroes they have 30%/40% winrates on, it means you're shouldering a lot of the weight and if you can't carry that deficit, you're taking an L. You need to bow out of comp and work on Tanks and supports. 2 heroes from every category (except defense... because uhhhh... no) should be apart of your competency roster. 


A lot of DPS players suffer from frag out syndrome and get so caught up in getting kills and padding stats that they forget about the big picture. Also they often go on the wrong targets, are on a target for too long, or get baited easily.


Finally, you have to remember that the purpose of competitive isn't to gain SR it's to put you in competitive matches. If you're improving you will climb. If you are plateauing you will keep roughly a 50% win rate. Everyone can't be GM/T500, but everyone thinks they deserve to be. High level GM DPS players can usually carry games to a considerable degree all the wait up through mid diamond. Yes, one player can carry a team. I did it whe I was a plat and got the chance to play a friend's bronze account I won't 23 games straight 6 of them were 5v6 in favor of the enemy team and I still won them (playing pharah). You just have to figure out the hypercarries for any given rank.


Good luck and keep grinding!
In DPS I Play a lot of Genji with Pharah and Soldier on the back burner for when that dosnt work out, Tanks I struggle with but Winston dose the job for me, and support I just can't play effectively, mostly because theres no interest in the healer department that I actively enjoy playing, so I'll hover between them all and hope for the best if I end up playing them.

Standard Comp for 2-2-2 usually results in me playing DPS with usually a Mcree or Pharah as our second DPS (Sometimes Soldier but thats rarer then the others), Our Tanks usually being Road and D.Va (Although Winston and Orisa have started to pop up more) and our Supports usually Mercy and Zen.

Hopfully that answers your question.
I know medals/elims mean jack if you can't make up for it when the action matters, I meant to put across that if I am doing well I'm usually the last one to be dead in a situation that I shouldn't be, I can give an example to that very thing.

The other day I had a match where we started a team fight on the first point (Lunar Base), Zarya ults their Team I go in with a Genji Ult, Secure a quad and watch as my Team gets Dismantled by a Single Reaper, following me to be taking down by him and an Orisa that was trying to shoot me while I was ulting.

Its situations like that that come up time and time again in my matches.

and the reason I didn't want the "the only common is you" response is because I've never seen it actively help anyone, nor have I ever seen anyone respond with "Huh you know your right", I'm all for telling me I need to shape up but telling me "is you" dosnt exactly help in any situation.
Well, look at it like this. If you were able to secure a quad on the enemy, why would it not make sense for the reaper to do the same to your team? Getting the quad does not pull your team ahead if your team is attacked with a similar burst of damage. 

The whole idea of this subreddit is to learn and improve your own skill/knowledge of the game. There are a million different ways to re-word "the only common thing is you" but that is what it ultimately boils down to in each of those. Don't hang on to those games where you did good and still lost. Every single person in this game experiences that so very often. Those games suck, but they aren't indicative of your true skill and understanding.
It wasn't a similar amount of burst from the Reaper, On our side we took 2 Ults to set up that Quad, while I was cleaning up Reaper just walked up (no Ult) and just Shot our Team down for free, you say that those games suck and happens every so often, but this is an example of how most of my games have been going this season, not just a one of example of me trying to ego boost.
Well if the the rank you are at qualifies for things like that to be happening to your team then why aren't you doing the same. I doubt your team is giving away fights, dying for free. You say this is how most of your games are, but then why aren't you wiping the enemy team solo handedly every time? your team is at the same rank as you for a reason, you aren't cursed with bad teammates. You might just be going through a rough patch of games, which is unfortunate but nothing can be done about that. you just have to play through it.

I lose more sr on a loss than what i gain after a win, should i try to stick to the same hero the whole match?
Basically, my problem is that whenever i win a match, i get about 20/25 sr, and when i lose my sr goes down by about 25/30. My question is, does this mean im not supposed to be in my tier? Im diamond, after the placements i was placed at 3249, last season ending at around 3100-3200 more or less after climbing from plat, ending the season with about 80 hours played.

Does losing more sr than what i gain mean that i should be in a lower tier? Or is it because i switch hero if the team needs it, from dps to tank, tank to healer etc, because this sr problems happens no matter what hero/class i play.This seems to happen for a while after you climb out of a lower rank that you were in for a while. System takes a while to get confident that you really belong in the higher rank, because it's still got a ton of pretty recent data suggesting you belong lower.
I highly doubt they have that issue completely fixed. I would at-least try not to swap roles(dps-tank) but 76 to Mecree should not be too bad.
If I'm not mistaken 3:2 win/loss ratio should net you equal or close to it. I don't know why the gain/loss isn't equal but I don't know anyone who's had that fortune.

My aim is decent but my movement/strafing is trash. Any tips for being a harder target if I'm stuck out in the open in a 1v1 situation?
I usually a-d spam in rhythm with some occasional crouch spam as Tracer to some good success.  

However, my worst matchups are Hanzos as they tend to find me incredibly predictable and maybe some Soldiers.  

Are there any strafing movements or tips you guys know of that I can practice in DM?  

I've noticed as well that with Mccree, my movement is trash and i mostly depend on trying to kill someone faster than they can but that's not always available to me.  

I've seen Pros do some reallly odd movements that I'd like to mimic but they're probably random and I'm thinking too into it.   
Any tips would gladly be appreciated. I should probably watch the Overwatch dojo video on dodging to refresh my mind but I'd like to know if anyone one has any tips as well.  
Thanks. Dude just run from hanzo unless you can sneak up and one clip him. His scatter will fuck you up every time and it's easy enough to get a lucky death blow on tracer. Hanzo gets my adrenaline hyped when it's 1v1 cause it's so dangerous 
it's probably not your movement but your positioning

if people see you coming from whatever far away, you can dodge and be slippery as much as you want, you'll either run out of cooldowns or get shot anyways

mccree doesn't really have movement, just make sure you shoot first and can retreat to cover easily
Maybe the rythm is the problem, you gotta a-d randomly, put some jumps and etc...if it has a rythm it becomes easy to predict...and also, watch out for your positioning, you dont wanna take 1v1's that wont affect and help that much your team. Choose well the time to flank 
why ad in rhythym? consider with a and d, and crouch, you can short tap, long tap, double/triple+++ tap. you can also jump. So mix it up my man.
A few suggestions:

1. Tailor your movement to the hero(es) that you're fighting. AD spamming might work quite well against the likes of McCree when you're just trying to burn his last 50% of health and he needs a double-tap, but it will get you murdered by heroes like Pharah (rocket splash), Junk (SPAM!), Hanzo (scatter & fat hitbox arrows) Zarya (right click splash) and even Mercy (slow moving projectile where every other shot will hit an AD spammer). 

2. If you're up against multiple 'styles' of damage or angles of attack, AD spamming is out as what's hard to hit for hero A will be easy for hero B. Also, there's no point in AD spamming to kill a McCree if a soldier is attacking from a different angle. Your left/right strafes (from McCree's persective) are forward/back strafes for the Soldier, so it's a free kill, as you're basically stationary on the soldier's screen. AD spamming also makes your recall location extremely predictable. 

3. Join a custom game with a friend and try different movement patterns. Figure out what your friend finds most difficult to hit. 

I don't have anything good for dealing with good Hanzos, unfortunately. I just try and avoid attacking when scatter's up, and let my team pressure him.
Add in some AD dancing with some crouching. If you're Sombra, have a telelocator at the ready so you can get the hell out of there when the SHTF.
Never jump unless you are genji. It makes you easier to line up shots for.
Or lucio hahah forgot to mention specific heroes
Is genji supposed to jump, though? I play a lot of Hanzo and if most people jump it's a death sentence from scatter, especially double jump
Interesting. I saw Dibz repeatedly crouching seemingly to try to avoid something but it would probably have the same result as jumping. 

I've also heard conflicting advice saying to jump around a lot as tracer to avoid getting one shot by Hanzo.
I love it when genjis jump because they are so easy to track

Jumping is bad movement unless the enemy is a Pharah / Junk
How can you scatter a target that is in the air?
Crouching and jumping definitely don't have the same result. 

If you crouch the opponent can't know when you will stand back up -- they can either aim for your head, which will be a body shot if you stand up, or they can aim above you, which will be a miss if you don't stand up. In other words, by just being unpredictable with when you crouch/stand up you can cause them to do less than ideal DPS even if they hit most shots.

If you jump, your character moves in a completely predictable way and you have very little control while in the air to try to juke your opponent. So against a talented opponent you're basically giving them time to set up very easy headshots where they know you'll be unable to dodge it.
You know more or less exactly where they'll land, makes it a lot easier

A Vod from a Silver Soldier
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2OvX3szfMs

After taking some nice suggestions from this subreddit (and some more.... aggressive ones), I finally found a work around for my weird vod issues, so this is the first one I'm posting here.

Thanks beforehand for anyone who takes the time to review my vod.I'll do a vod review but I can tell you some of your biggest problems you have in the first 50 seconds of the round. 

You jump before you look. You literally jump before you look. 

you don't observe, understand, then decide. 

You jump first, then react. 

1:37 - your Dva showed high ground. This point I am almost 100% sure all 6 enemy players are now looking at the exact point. 

you jump off the high ground. 

so you have 150 hp, jumping into the dead center of the fight where you can be pretty sure 6 people are looking at your exact position. 

Are you serious? 

1:37 you're high ground, 1:38 you jumped off. 

then you spray at the first red thing you see. You're not actually aiming. You're firing wildly at sym turrets and miss your entire first clip.  you only needed to land 2 shots of your 40 bullet clip and you missed every single shot.

so in the first few seconds of the fight, you show bad decision making skills and bad mechanics. 

~~~

Look and judge before you do things. 

Look at a target, put crosshair on target, shoot target. 

~~~

I'll edit when I can figure out your worst bad habit. 

edit : 

You have 3 pretty basic aiming problems.

First,  you're looking at your crosshair and not looking at your target. Second, you're aiming at an area and not at a point. Third, you're not actively aiming. 

1 - you need to look at your target and predict where they are going so you can be ready to smoothly track them. You're only holding down left click and as soon as they move from their original spot you have to react and do a flick. This happens over and over again because you're not paying attention to your targets but to your crosshair. 

2 - you're happy with simply hitting the target. Just hitting. Not thinking about where or why or how or what else. you need to aim for the head. you need to pick a point and pay attention. You're constantly on body shots and then turn off your brain till you need to flick back on target.  Aim for the head. Aim for a single point and not an area. 

3- you dont think when you aim. You only have 2 thoughts when you aim,  is my crosshair on target and where is the target now. you don't track, you don't actively adjust your aim to a better spot ( the head ), you don't think about the range, you dont think about your position, you try to understand the target, you don't think about burst firing. You hold down leftclick and only have 2 thoughts. 

 


When playing soldier it's important to not be greedy. Find a good spot 20-30m from the point, and use your range to your advantage. Make the enemy come to you, don't give up your positional advantage to chase kills. 

2:05 You lose 3 people and tell your team to regroup. Instead of regrouping, you sprint to the point and tell your team to push before they have a chance to get there. 

Around 3:15-3:40 you're playing extremely aggressively, putting yourself at risk while chasing kills. While it's good to push ahead after capping a point, you stay a bit too long and end up in a vulnerable spot.

4:05 half your team is dead to a reaper ult. Instead of regrouping you risk your life to try to duel him at close range. Why? You're gonna have to wait for your team to get back even if you kill him.

4:20 team agrees to regroup, then proceeds to not group up. Grouping up doesn't mean wait for some people to spawn, it means wait for EVERYONE to spawn. Why fight 5v6 when you can make it 6v6 by waiting for a few seconds?

4:35 your run in front of your team to engage, fighting a soldier out in the open and somehow ending up behind the enemy team. 

4:58 you run past your tanks straight into the entire enemy team. It's a miracle you didn't die here.

5:10 enemy hog runs into the building to flank, and you run straight into his arms. Fighting at 10m range in an enclosed area is exactly what Roadhog wants, so just cover the entrances from 20m away and shoot him when he comes out.

5:35 good flanking attempt with ulti, but why did you jump down? You're finally in a good position, and you gave it away for no reason.

5:55 You run up to Hog and Zarya in an attempt to hug them. Imagine if hadn't jumped down from high ground, you would've been in the perfect position.

I think you played very well on defense. You just picked a good, safe high ground spot and shot the enemy from a distance. Still a few minor mistakes though:

12:00 you suddenly jump off high ground to chase a Zenyatta who is probably going to die anyway. You gave up your high ground position and ended up in that tiny room. Would've been better to stay.

12:40 you run TOWARDS the reaper, when you should be going the other way. You have much longer range than reaper, so just fight him at a range where he can't do anything.


Just some quick points I noticed:

Use your ult more often and try coordinate it with your team.

Use your helix rocket more often when finishing off low health enemies, you can just shoot it @ the ground for an easy kill. Like at 6:18 with zarya. I'd even wager you underutilize the ability as a whole.

I dont know if you're not playing with headphones or just unaware but I think you need to pay more attention to what is going on around you.

You also seem to ignore the flankers shredding your healers when you're attacking, if you can shoot at them you should try to chase them off rather than doing nothing about it.

Something that helped myself rise from 2300 to 3k+ is to make plans as I go through the games, always have an escape plan when taking high ground for example or flanking, always try and make good use of your ult through coordinating whatever way you can with your team, if you pick a hero like sombra or torb, have a plan and present it to your team.

On defense you took the usual high ground position which is good to do as soldier until you jump down. Try to make plans as I said earlier and to not go out of position.

There are some few times where you actually track your opponents and land your shots, but in general you seem to flick rather than try and track the enemy, read up on how to improve that. 

Hope this is helpful. 
At 11:19 You don't have to move, the reaper is far away and there's no enemies to contest you, simply stand still and make it easier on yourself to hit your shots.
Let's take a look at the Sym fight at 2:34.

First, you're not standing in the right place at all.  You should not have been standing on the point.  You should have been up on the balcony.

Try this experiment:

Go into the practice range and find the stationary bot that's next to the moving ones.  There are markings on the floor to give you a sense of distance.

Stand all the way back at the 0m mark.  That puts you 40m from the bot.  Shoot your helix at the bot, then shoot it in the face just as the helix lands.  If you time it right, you should find that you can 0-100% kill that bot in about a quarter of a second. (btw also try this against a Widow that hasn't seen you yet!)

For reference, McCree needs to hit *five consecutive headshots* to kill the bot at that range.

Very few heroes are that lethal at that range.  Fewer still can also apply nonstop pressure and self-sustain.

Aim to stand 30-40m from the enemy at all times.  Stand on high ground, and STAY THERE.  While you are in this position, you are difficult to hit, you can heal yourself to sustain, *and* you can inflict maximum damage on the enemy.

If someone looks like they're going to close the gap on you, flee into your team and get help.  Don't wait until you're already in a 1v1.  Live.

Secondly, you panic when it's time to shoot.  Play the sym fight at 0.5 or 0.25 speed and watch the way your crosshair bounces around.  Your whole arm seizes up and you jerk the mouse around wildly trying to get your crosshairs onto something.

You need to calm down and purposefully control your actions.  Reflexes aren't getting you anywhere at all.

Symmetra players generally follow a semipredictable pattern of strafing at close range and jumping.  Move your hand such that your crosshair is over her face, and track the arc of her jump.  _Once you have moved your crosshair onto her face_, hold down the mouse button for a moment.  Release it for an instant every 4-5 shots, then repeat.

When Sym jumps, point your crosshair at the spot where she is going to land, and right click just as he arrives there.

You might also want to turn your sensitivity down.  Playing Soldier well is very much about making small, precise corrections to your aim so that you can hit headshots from 30-40m away.
I'm no Soldier expert but I saw three bad things:

1) Your first ult. If you see the other team, they don't have shields or a D. Va. You don't have to worry about a shield or a Matrix that would stop your ult. Also, they have a Roadhog. You can charge a Soldiers ult really fast with an enemy Roadhog. Against that comp, your ult is deadly.

2) Your position. Always try to get the high ground as Soldier. Not only is harder for the enemy to attack you, is easier to land headshots. Also, don't try to go ahead of your team, try to stay behind the healers or above them. If your D. Va is out of the Meka and they have a Reaper, be careful because he is probably going to ult.

3) Shooting at Zaryas Bubbles. You do this a lot. The enemy Zarya is always behind and using you to charge her power. It was not exactly a problem in this match, but a good Zarya is going to destroy your team if you keep shooting at her Bubbles. The only moment is a good idea to shoot, is when she is low on health.

Your aim is a little "rough". Like you are pressing the mouse really hard against the desk. Try to move it smoothly and low the sens a little bit every 2 weeks. If you think is too low, move it up a bit, but try not to go back to your old sens. Keep up practicing and good luck!
My current sensitivity is actually at 750 dpi with 6 in game. I've been told it's too low. Should I lower it anyways?
I'm not at home right now to check my sens (wich is higher I think). Are you using your whole arm to aim? Do you find that sometimes your hand or arm or mouse gets "stuck" and it feels weird to move?

You need to feel comfortable and not lose control of the aim at any time. Do you feel it this way?
I actually do feel like I've been wanting to lower it for a while. I accidentally had it stuck on 500 dpi at a certain point, which was actually way too low, but it still felt a little bit better and more controlled. One of the reasons I kept it at this sensitivity was cus I wanted to play tracer, but I kind of figured that if I actually wanna climb up the ranks, I might as well stick with soldier.

Edit: I think I use my arm generally to aim. I don't feel like I get stuck, but I do feel like I have less control sometimes, like my crosshair just moves way too much when I just want to move it a millimeter. 
Try to use your wrist to aim and your arm to move your vision. Maybe that's why sometimes you feel you are not in control.
That seems bad advice, isn't the whole point of low sens being able to aim with your arm? If you are going to use your wrist you might as well use a much higher sens.
No, you need to use both, arm and wrist. Arm for quick movements and wrist to aim.

Bear with me tracer mains... but does she need a nerf?
I know, I know. She's a high skill cap hero and super squishy and demanding. She's also relatively consistently one of the best single carry heroes regardless of team comp. she doesn't need dive to to effective. She doesn't need a healer looking after her. She doesn't even need other dps support or a barrier to rely on. One of the most frustrating things (for me as a mid gold player) is playing against a decent tracer. She's super hard to kill. Yeah you can rocket her or trap her or something, but even when you do it feels more like luck than skill. At least in my experience. A knowledgeable tracer won't ever get flash bung (banged?) by mcree. Roadhog isn't as viable of a counter as he used to be, although to be fair she is one of the few heroes he can still usually one shot. They kind of counter each other I guess, which still isn't good option. Pharah needs to hit two rockets to kill her and we all know how tough that can be. It just seems like she is a staple in all pro level play and she has super high damage potential and is super tricky to kill. Genji is a high skill cap hero too and he isn't anywhere near as difficult to deal with generally. I'm not sure what the fix is here as it's clear her balance is on a super fine edge. I don't think dive is inherently OP, I just think it's tracer. NO
Have you played tracer? Its not easy to make her feel unkillable...I've tried..
Lol no. A good McCree can make a good Tracer ineffective at getting to supports even if he doesn't kill her often, simply because of the threat of the flashbang or a body shot here and there. Also Roadhog is probably more annoying to a Tracer now, as he can spam shots much faster and can still hook & 1 shot her.

Edit: Coming from 150+ hours of experience with each

Edit 2: She's soft countered by a soldier with non-potato aim, as a helix & a couple bullets will put her down, random junkrat spam/trap, Roadhog, & Sombra. Also a good Genji is just as annoying to play against, as he can dash back to safety just like tracer can recall, with a shorter cooldown.
I don't play tracer, but I play against a lot of them and in all my days have really only come across one that has given me a lot of trouble.

And that was when I played a lot more healer. I play much more solider now and even the regular aren't a big issue. 

Tracers at my level (high gold- low plat) can't 1v1 me and I have become decent at landing the pulse rockets. 

You touched on it, but I just want to say it again; the tracers at low levels are 9/10 not good at tracer. She is such a high skill cap character and the players (myself included) simply don't have the mechanics to make her work. 

That small <10% that do have the mechanics to make her work are already out of high gold and low plat and are off doing bigger and greater things in higher ELOs. 

The same is true for genji and, to a lesser extent pharah and McCree. 





People have touched on a couple of her direct counters, most notably McCree and Roadhog, but the best way to beat her is to not rely on a single person to kill her.

Tracer can dominate many 1v1 fights by disorienting her opponent while dealing heavy burst damage with her pistols. It's easy to safely juke one hero using blinks, but if you get even one more person to threaten her, she runs out of safe places to blink to. You wont always kill her, but if you force her to use recall, you at least force her to leave the fight.
>flash bung


I wish I could send this 2 likes 
Valid argument. I see your point. 
I also suck as tracer. I can recognize that she's a high skill cap hero it just seems disproportionate. Like for the same level of skill as genji or pharah or sombra you still have a few solid counters and can't just wreak havoc on the enemy team. At the very least most other heroes need some sort of support from their own team to be as effective as a solo tracer. Tracer can recall and dart to health packs, blink in, one clip a 200 hp enemy, blink back to safety all by yourself. Other heroes need healing or dps support or a tank to make space. Tracer relies on nobody but herself 
That's a decent point I suppose. A mcree body guard can peel for his healers. But doesn't that remove his effectiveness from the rest of the fight? Like if he's babysitting his healers in the backline isn't he not contributing that much to the fight on point? Cause tracer can come in and one clip a healer before he has time to go from the fight back to his healers. And his damage fall off is kind of significant. Still does damage but turns a 2-3 shot kill into a 5-6 shot kill at medium to long range 
A little late response here but tracer is not a one-man army. If she is consistently picking off certain chars on your team (I main zen..I know what tracers want to do..) then the team needs to help them. 

Its not the same way you "counter" a genji by throwing someone like winston or mei in to make him scared to engage even with deflect up, but tracer only has 150 hp. That means *IF* more than one person is looking at her and she takes 50-75 damage she knows shes on her deathbed and is forced to recall. Now shes not harassing your backline for another ~10 seconds OR if she is you should be happy, kill her since she has no out! 

The real point of this is, that if her team is not engaged and the enemies are just hanging around then tracer going in is a death sentence from 6 people instantly. Therefore, she requires her team to distract the enemy front line to be able to isolate her targets.
If he's a good McCree he wouldn't be that far away from his healers, as he relies on them as much as they do on him. He has no mobility/escape tool outside of his roll, and no self sustain. Also even the best tracers don't consistently one clip 200hp heroes so you usually have time to peel.
This is the correct answer. I have almost 150 hours on Tracer and if the enemy team doesn't bother to turn around, I *will* wipe the floor with your supports tears.

People to group up with
Hi I'm looking for people to do placements with around gold/plat I have 2 accounts on Xbox I've had the typical comp experience doesn't need explaining looking for anyone with a mic and is at least 13 or older I'll be on tomorrow This is the wrong place to ask this.
r/OWConsole is a good place or r/overwatch_lfg

Edit for correct reddit

Aiming change and placements
I could make 2 topics on this but I'd rather compress them not to spam the subreddit. I've noticed my aim seems off since the last update, and apparently pros feel it as well. Does anyone know why this could be? People suggest an input lag change or netcode change but idk enough about that stuff.  

The second question is placements, I had 3 throwers and ended up 4 wins 6 loses and gained 10 sr from where I ended. I've seen people win 10 and go from 3400 to 3800. I really like the new placement system. Just curious what everyone's thoughts are on this. This is interesting because one of my mates thought the same thing about his aim being off since the update too, this is the second time of hearing this.
the aim thing is probably the placebo effect, you read about the sensitivity being off and now you have that stuck in your mind subconsciously making you aim worse even though nothing changed

everyone getting placed at their real skill rating is a win for everyone and should make better balanced matches
what do u mean aim change ?! maybe u didn't warm up before playing...
I don't think it's the placebo cause I thought my aim was off BEFORE I read about it. That's what prompted me to look it up. There's a thread on the main overwatch subreddit with 1000+ likes on the subject 
I'm not that dumb but thanks for saying so... look it up a few pros have been mentioning it feels off as well. 
well that doesn't mean it has to be true, though

there are hundreds or thousands of people believing the earth is flat or vaccines cause autism too

i saw that thread, it claims sensitivity changed, i checked that by measuring and i still have 50cm/360 just like before the patch

Tips for Improvement III
Video of my most recent game: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M0LxvVT4C6A&feature=youtu.be

I placed Bronze this season and I want to get out. I'm aware that I may have ulted at bad times throughout my last match, but in addition to what I can work on, what am I doing right? 

I main Reaper and Junkrat. When you respawn, use your teleport to regroup faster with your team.

You never flank, instead of wrath forming behind the Bastion, you ignored him, got shot by him, and ran for a health pack. You have Vampirism.

One of the biggest problem you have is that when you are low HP, you seem to completely ignore the enemy and head for the healthpack. You can walk backwards you know.

Your Junkrat play was surprisingly good however. :)

DPS main in Masters
>You can walk backwards you know.

I know, and I would if I was playing any other DPS, but because Reaper is meant for close-range combat, I thought I might as well just focus all my effort into retreating for a health pack.

Any other tips? Any specific examples of when I screwed up? 
For my own clarification (don't main Reaper, but dabble), low-mid Plat, but shouldn't you save wraith for retreat rather than for engage? 
Use narrow spaces and cover to your advantage. Lunar may not be ideal for this, but maps like Eichenwalde is a good example.

Aim for the neck. The majority of your bullets will land on the chest, but the bullets that land as headshot will deal a ton of damage.
Don't always approach your enemy from the front, shoot while walking alongside them.

3:05 Why did you stop shooting the Mercy?

5:44 The Reinhart just charged in and had the back to you. Why didn't you punish him! Reaper eats Reinharts. :)
Wraith form has many uses. Baiting out a helix or flashbang, retreating, but also to get closer to a enemy without taking damage. If the majority of the pellets land, you can oneshot every 200 hp hero.
Retreat is the number one use, but why put yourself in that position to start with ;)
Fair points, so basically either way, it's more situational than anything 😂
Exactly :)

Basilisk's Overwatch Performance Tracker (Updated for Season 6)
Hi everyone, I have been posting this performance tracker here for a few seasons, here is the updated version for season 6. There is an input tab to have open while playing to easily input your data and then an analysis tab with stats and charts. There is mouseover text that explains what each column is and where it is used in the analysis, let me know if you find any bugs or want to share ideas for additional useful stats. Here is the blank version, click File->make a copy to get your own editable version, do not send me a request for editing access please: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1jJC4uJTpAffcUy7VNvG2aWiIx7St3uikmadtjAf2Itk/edit?usp=sharing

Here is an example with some data inputted so you can see how it looks: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1nXnBkZvXIyw8zS7r4ABJqye9QhmJayhh3tTiAA1sJ1U/edit?usp=sharing

The dates and times will enter automatically when you enter an SR value for that row, however they will be entered in EST. If you live in a different time zone you can either just use the Ctrl+Alt+Shift+; shortcut to enter date and time or go to Tools>Script Editor and change the timezone at the top from GMT-4 to whatever your timezone is.

If your SR decays, just enter the SR you decayed to in the next empty row of the input tab and then type "Decay" without the quotes into the notes column.

I have already added Junkertown but I will update this post during the season if Blizzard releases a new hero or map and i'll link to the next post next off-season (as long as i'm still working on this.)

I may also add some new features/stats mid season since I didn't have time to do much except add the new map this offseason so keep an eye out for updates to this post.

I have had a couple people contact me asking to give donations, I by no means need to make money off of this spreadsheet but if you feel like donating anyway i'll leave my paypal link here: https://www.paypal.me/Basilisk335

Good luck in Season 6 =)Thank you. This sheet is the best 
not working good in excel, anybody help who is using tracker in excel

Thanks! I am using your PT since season 4 and was really lokking forward for your newest updated version :) so, Season 6 here I come!
Any easy way to input data? Or do you have to manually enter it all in? Sorry, i'm new to your spreadsheets, but great work :)
Thanks so much for this. I used your performance tracker towards the middle of the season and it was a lot easier following my matches. 
Thanks for the great tracker. I just have one question. Are hero play percentages and category play/win/loss/draw numbers not supposed to be calculated automatically?
Thanks been waiting for this!
I want to change the time to be GMT +5:30

is that what i have to enter in the script?
Hey I got this weird thing where one of the sr boxes isnt outlined on two sides, how do I fix this?
ya this doesnt transfer well to excel. I have been planning on making an excel version of it but haven't yet, sorry.
don't enter anything into the analysis tab. there is an input tab at the bottom of the spreadsheet and each row in that tab represents one game. The Analysis tab fills in automatically.
they should be calculated automatically. Are they not coming up for you?
Yep, that should work. If it doesn't maybe also try changing the timezone in File->Spreadsheet settings
It shouldn't affect how the sheet works, just use the borders tool to fill in whichever ones are missing, its the icon that looks like a square made of 4 smaller squares.
Please do not spend time on that. The cloud based version is great. Use your time for new features.
ok, thank you for fast reply
Nope. Percentages for maps arent't showing either. I don't have much experience in sheets so I'm not sure what's wrong

https://imgur.com/Tvv8XLJ

That's very strange. I recommend either grabbing a new copy from the blank version and transferring your data over or PMing me a link to your sheet, i can't tell why it isn't working from the screenshot.

What to record my gameplay with
Hey guys! 

Starting season 6 on PC, I want to record my gameplay and sort of analyse it to get better.

I was wondering what is the best software that is simple to use to do so. 



Thank you :)Obs is good, you can stream or record or do both! :)
I like to use OBS streaming on Twitch. Then I can export the VODS to Youtube as unlisted videos. I love it because it takes 0 space on my hard drive. Then you can access your gameplay recordings on your phone, tablet etc which is convenient and relaxing if you're just trying to review them to see how you can improve.
Plays TV is a really easy app to do it with. You can start and stop recording in-game at any time, and save it straight to your hard drive

http://plays.tv/
If you have an NVidia GPU, then Shadowplay (or, ugh, *GeForce Experience*) is your best bet: almost nonexistent on the system resources, creates high-quality videos with smaller size than a non-dedicated software can provide.

Likewise, if you have an AMD Radeon GPU, try ReLive.

I've heard good things about OBS, but I also heard it's more resource-intensive than the above-mentioned software.
Geforce/Relive/Xbox DVR
Use the built-in feature in Overwatch or Shadowplay/ReLive
I personally use Windows Xbox DVR.
I just stream to YouTube
I'll take a look at that now, thank you. Greatly appreciated. 
This is a great idea! However I have poor internet so I'm not sure how well twitch will work out, but I'll try and give it a go! 
I've never heard of this, but it sounds sweet and simple. I'll definitely be checking this out when I'm at home! Thanks :) 
Lovely response with plenty of info. I have a NVidia GPU so this sounds pretty neat. Cheers! 
Personal experience over the last year: NVIDIA share aka Shadowplay is clunky and plenty resource intensive and often does stuff you don't tell it to do. OBS is lightweight and consistent. I put off making the switch for a year because OBS required effort to set up. I should've done it from the start. 
I'll take a look at that now! 
You're welcome! Some more info: if you don't mind having to log in with an NVidia account to use the recording feature and occasionally being unable to record because NVidia's servers that day refuse to let you in, go with the latest GeForce Experience (3.0+). Otherwise, [get an older version](https://www.reddit.com/r/nvidia/comments/58lh1y/avoid_geforce_experience_30_without_tedium_or/).
I get practically no performance hit using Shadowplay

Tips for Comp season 6.
Some tips for season 6. Placed at silver 1800 Sr. I am good on cree and feel the most confident I have 100+ hours on him and my accuracy is good as I was a CoD, CSgo player besides that I also play 76, pharah, hog, dva, rein if we really need him, ana and zenyatta. I can play all the heroes cept widow but these are the ones I am confident playing. And besides cree I am good at ana as well because of the similarity (aim and shoot). I am getting widow and hanzo lock ins and I don't tilt easily but when I do it's massive and I stop playing so that I don't become toxic on chat.
My questions are
If I do have uncooperative trolls picking widow or junk rat and not contributing what role do I play to make up? Exceptional tank play or heals?
Even though my accuracy is good I have some positioning trouble on cree when I get dived by genji, Winston and a discord orb so any tips?
I am an average hanzo player and only play him when we have a good zarya and on some first points like hanamura and eichenwalde on attack. If someone could tell me when to be reactive and when to be proactive with sonic arrow?
Should I switch my main role to tank when I have no healers on team or should I stick to my best heroes?(i usually go hog)
If anyone finds time to reply then thanks in advance. In the future try to format your posts so that it isn't a wall of text
Honestly I can't really say if any hero is a "troll" pick. If you're playing mcree at 1900 some may think you're a "troll" pick. Instead of focusing on troll picks, just think about what you can do. An attack torb? Don't tilt on him and say he's throwing. Ask him to switch if he is not working or being countered. 
OK I am new to reddit. My brother used to have this account I am not familiar with how things work but ya I got your point.. It was silly of me. Sorry to have bothered you. Good luck in overwatch. 
I do that.. Atleast I try to.. When I get a hanzo who isn't landing shots I pick up zarya to make use of his ult. But with widow and torb I just don't know how to play around them. And since you mentioned torb I just came out of a game on Hanamura where I asked the torb to put turrets in places where it would be of use but alas he kept trying to put it down in the choke where they had an orisa, rein and bastion Comp. And I had a widow who kept going to the open balcony opposite the choke on first point and kept getting killed by the enemy ana. I tried to pick up the slack by playing dva so I could Def matrix the widow till she could get a pick. She killed the ana finally. Our pharah ulted the choke to kill bastion. I Def matrixed my pharah so orisa and bastion couldn't shoot her down. She got her ult through. We cleared the choke. But we couldn't take the point cuz we just didn't have enough damage when the mercy rez Ed everyone. I tried to stop her but she was too far and the pharah was using her dance emote to star for the potential potg. Meanwhile...... Torb kept hammering that turret. :/
No worries man, not a big deal whatsoever, just makes it easier to read so you'll get more people willing to help you out. 

To answer your question, at your rank you're going to get a lot of unconventional team comps, and that's ok.  Things will be much worse if you try to force yourself to play a character just because that's what the meta dictates.  Play what you're comfortable with, mechanical skill goes a long way at lower SR
Honestly, if you play well as literally any hero you can roll right through silver without too much of an issue. The game you're describing is one you might not be able to win, but they won't all be like that, and if you focus on improving your own game and you play a lot of games, the system will put you more or less right where you belong.
I have managed to plug through silver and gold once. Season 4 I was placed bronze climbed to Plat playing only playing ana, rein and 76. I am better at mcree than them but still having a hard time. Got into a game where everyone played dps. And then blamed me for not putting the nano genji to sleep. I mean that's my fault for sure for missing the sleep. But come on man it's like my team just needed a reason to put the blame on someone else. But thanks for the tips. If it comes to it I will have to become a mercy main or something to keep my team mates alive. 

Improvements after upgrading equipment?
Ever since I got the game, I've been playing on my laptop with 30-50 fps and 50% render scale. Obviously aiming can be a problems a lot of the time, which has led me to play a lot of Winston, junkrat, and torb (for some reason I struggle with mercy and lucio). I'm currently sitting at ~3300 SR, and I was thinking about biting the bullet and splurging on a real PC. Has anyone here gone through a similar experience? Did it make the game more enjoyable? Was there any increase in overall SR or performance?I believe you will improve after you got used to the new equipment. 30-50 FPS is really low. Imagine a player with 90-144 FPS and an appropriate 144Hz Monitor has about 3 times the information you have. It wont make you a better player on its own, but it will enable you to become better. 
You can learn basic racing in a VW beetle, but you cannot even imagine what it takes to race the track in a Lamborghini 
I was at around 4k SR when I had 55 fps max and dips in the 40s during fights. I played zarya/hog/ana. I then upgraded to 144fps. Over the course of 1 month i managed to climb to top 500 and I definitely felt like the switch to 144 fps made a big difference. Everything "feels" better, looks smoother and the movement of enemies feels much smoother. It also revived my interest and boosted my enjoyement of the game because I could feel I was improving and everytime I messed up I knew it was my fault and not a random dip in fps that threw me off.

Given that you have an even worse setup than what I had, upgrading will definitely make you improve, gain SR and make the game way more enjoyable for you. I definitely recommend it, I'm very happy to have upgraded my set up.
I've been gaming on self-built PCs for nearly 10 years now, so I haven't made a big jump like that myself recently. Last year I upgraded my GPU, and this year I got a 144 Hz monitor. I don't find that this made my aim massively better, but the game is definitely more enjoyable to play now. You will probably notice a much bigger jump if you go from crappy laptop where you can't even hit 60 FPS to a proper desktop PC where you can get 200+ FPS. It's definitely worth it IMO if you play a lot of PC games.

Getting a decent mouse + a large mousepad can help a ton, too.

EDIT: I wouldn't recommend building a PC right this minute as Intel is about to release new 6 core CPUs. Also, RAM, SSD, and GPU prices are unfortunately very high right now, but this probably won't change for at least a year. I would upgrade whenever the 8600K and 8700K CPUs are released (probably late this year or early next year). Check out the /r/buildapc subreddit or message me if you want PC building/peripheral advice. I can nerd out about this stuff all day.
I played the beginning of season 5 on a similar setup, everything at low and 50% render 30 fps. I had just moved and I hadn't moved my real PC yet. Holy shit it was awful, I definitely played much worse. Specially trying to aim at people no so close is just aiming at a moving pixel cloud lol. When I finally got the PC up and running it felt incredible and I played much better. From 30 fps 50% render everything low with 1900x1600 (I think) to around 80-90 fps, ultra and 2K it was something!
Yes went from laptop to desktop. Aim with hitscan went from 36% to 52% But yes all stats improved greatly. I can't even bear to play on my laptop anymore the 1080 and G-sync 34 monitor just too good!
Yes it will absolutely help. Playing at 30 fps at low resolution is a very real disadvantage. Even going to 60fps 1080 would help a lot.
Yeah, that's a great analogy. It seems like I've almost stagnated to the point where there's no realistic option outside of getting new gear
Thanks man, especially for the info on the PC! I'll definitely wait a little bit now, and don't be surprised if I do end up messaging you when I decide to start my build :)
On the other hand you have people like Jake that hit T500 playing on a MacBook with Bootcamp. Personally, as someone with a top of the line computer and plat skills, it's a nice quality of life improvement - but I'm skeptical that you will see significant measurable improvement from hardware alone.

What do you guys do to train with a new hero/train at all?
Whatup guys, i'm not a new player but i'm starting to get into overwatch a lot more than what i use to be before. 

My question is, what do you guys usually do when learning a new hero? Do you practice vs AI for a bit, then quick play and learn from errors and apply that for next time? I've been just using random characters like Genji on 3v3/4v4/DM or so (fairly getting better, but I suck using his ult) but my aim is a disaster sometimes, as well as my timing with special abilities. 

Also with D.va, whats a good way to use her ult? Is it more effective  to use it as a sneak attack against the team, or shoot it straight up like some other D.va players do?Note: I'm a masters pleb
Ok so when learning a new hero this is what I find generally works.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. Head to the practice range and get used to the basic movement and aim mechanics.

2. Once you know how these basic mechanics then I suggest watching youtube videos of pro players using the hero. You should be looking at their positioning, decision making, combos and target prioritization. Practice in QP (however, be cautious as there are a lot of ridiculous team comps in QP such as the infamous 6dps)

3. To practice aim head into a FFA deathmatch or team deathmatch (whichever you prefer). Focus on aiming, cool downs, movement. Remember, your goal is to learn how the hero works not to win the Death Match. If you focus too much on winning you may end up tilting yourself.

Overall, learning a hero and getting better at aim takes time so just keep practicing :P

To answer your question about timing.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
It comes down to game sense; knowing where the enemies are without seeing them and knowing when their ults are up (this comes with learning other heroes).

To answer your question about DVA (I'm not a DVA player so take this with a grain of salt).
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Use your ult to:

1. Zone enemies of points/carts

2. Reset your mech when low health (That defense matrix is strong, however, a patch may be coming to change that).

I don't recommend using it to get kill unless you know that you are going to get one. If you do choose to go for a kill then 

Launch it in the air wait for a second then press your Q. Flying it up means enemies behind low cover will get hit. Or fly it in a straight line to hit enemies behind corners.
I consume a lot of Overwatch content while at work and I like mystery heroes and mystery duel a lot, so I have decent mechanics on most heroes and I generally know all the basic damage values and combos on all the heroes.

My method for earning a hero is just taking them into quickplay for a little bit or rushing right into comp, sticking with it even if I get rolled and learning from mistakes or times I get outplayed. I don't care about my SR much, and I find once you get to a decent rank you need to go beyond mechanics and learn how to play it in a team setting, QP/AI can't help you with that.
> Also with D.va, whats a good way to use her ult? Is it more effective to use it as a sneak attack against the team, or shoot it straight up like some other D.va players do?

use it after everyone (on one of the teams) commits to the fight, but before the fight is over. use it when barriers are on cooldown.

try to put it in a spot thats hard to escape.
I picked up Zarya towards the end of Season 5. I went from low diamond way down to low gold. I didn't practice at all, other than watching Lassiz play Zarya back in the day. After a while (around 4 weeks) I ended up climbing and finishing the season at mid diamond. My mechanical skill isn't great but I have pretty good game sense and communication skills. That's pretty much the only reason I was diamond to begin with but I did notice that practicing with Zarya made me a much better tracker and it improved my Soldier game. 
Alt account and just play them
Dva main here. It's situational of course the best thing to do is to be in a middle of a team fight and launch it straight up during a team fight so that it causes panic and your team can kill the enemy while trying to get cover. The best way to shoot it straight up is not simply point up and shift ult, but rather to go in a L shaped and then launch it up. The reason for this is that sometimes dva ult explodes too high above to do damage to enemy and by doing the L-movement it will explode closer to the ground. Remember it's so easy to spot a ulting mech when it's coming from sky high. The second thing I like to do is go in a bit later than your team and when they're in there just shoot it from downtown. The reason for the second use is because it has more kill potential while the former is just a distraction/panic tool. The latter has more kill potential because they can't see where the ult is coming from until too late. Again the team comps have to be right for this: if they have too many shields and your other tank can't keep your team alive enough before your ult. The third is the standalone ult where you're either about to lose your mech or enemy is around the payload/control and want to zone them out. Keep in mind do not panic ult because if you died that quickly it would mean most of your team is also dead and you would have wasted your ult. Remember to always keep in mind who in the enemy team can cancel your ult and their positioning: rein Winston orisa mei 

tldr: 1. Straight upwards during team fight. 2. From downtown after your team engages. 3. Standing ult 4. Always analyze team comps
Will try these out, might actually make me an effective 76 lol. Thank you man. My friend has been telling me for months "just quick play and you'll learn" which has always kept me feom carinf about OW. Now i've gotten a little better, and i see the flaw in that logic of his. Thanks again man

Out of curiosity, who do you usually main as?


I am a tracer/soldier main

Stuck with playing Mercy
I am a low diamond support player. I love playing each support hero but almost everytime I have to be the healing person and Mercy helps the most in those situations in terms of running away and self healing while at the same time keeping people alive. Is there something I am missing about how the game works because it feels lile other heroes would not win us the game when solo healing. With the changes coming to Mercy what do you think it will happen in terms of solo healing?As far as solo healing goes, the changes to mercy will make her far stronger. Her ult will be able to be used to keep her alive and ward off flankers, and the solo rezzes make teammates that were out of your range or died because you were busy with someone else more forgiving. I think that at a majority of ranks, mercy will either continue to be the best solo healer, or start to rival Ana even in the higher ranks
You may just play mercy better than your other supports, especially if you are finding yourself having to play her more often, which leads to improvement.

The thing is, mercy IS the best solo healer, simply due to her consistency, and her revive works well as a solo healer since people die more often without 2 healers anyway. Call out when you are solo healing so people might switch, giving you the flexibility to pick another healer/support. With the mercy changes, her solo healing capabilites theoretically increase, as the chain heal is absurd on grouped teammates. 

If you feel you are not being impactful with other healers, it may simply be you play mercy at a better level. The other healers arent as good at solo healing as mercy, but they contribute and help their team in different ways that allow them to be viable picks.

Aim decay?
Okay so here's the problem.

I warm up in practice range and start playing the game.
My first few games my aim is generally on point being able to fluently track and flick targets.

However, upon continued playing my aim slowly 'decays'. I'm no longer able to flick and track properly even thought my position, game sens and desicion making stay relatively the same.
I do not experience any feelings of tiredness/fatigue in my arm, but, I am open to the possibility that it may be the case.

I play at 1600dpi and 1.5 sens (large enough mousemat to do a 180).

Just wondering how I could play for longer without having this problem ;) any help would be greatly appreciated.Probably just get tired

I play at 5.75/400 dpi (2300 edpi to your 2400 edpi) and if I play for 8+ hours my aim begin to drop off cause fatigue from playing at such at low sens

I'm 4353 sr for reference 
Maybe it is an aim fatigue. I was stuck in diamond for a long time and experienced a fatigue after a few games. To avoid it I stay caffeined up during an overwatch session
For reference in 800dpi/5 sens high masters/low GM player
You are just getting tired.

No one can aim consistently for a long time without breaks
Oh man not gonna lie . lol'd when I read "to avoid it I stay caffeinated up."  Maybe that's why I'm a diamond scrub. ;)
Oh yeah dude lmao some people get crazy with it and take pre workout powder for gaming 
> e people get crazy with it and take pre workout powder for gaming

I know the doc does but i thought that was a joke haha. 

Why McCree?
My question is why is McCree such a popular pick as DPS?

From how I understand it, Reaper is the tank shredder/best at close range, Soldier is flexible and just has high DPS from mid-range (good for shredding shields), and Tracer/Genji are good for flanking. 

Forgive my ignorance, but where does McCree fit in? Isn't he just outclassed at every specific DPS role by the others?McCree is mid-close-range burst DPS, like a shorter-range Hanzo. He has a higher skill floor and ceiling than Soldier - so a shitty McCree is less useful than a shitty Soldier - but the best McCree is better than the best Soldier. If you have very high accuracy and great aim, he can utterly destroy the enemy team.

He's not outclassed - he's just more difficult.
He's the medium range dps, soldier got consistent dps and McCree got that burst damage which gives him the advantage in that close-medium range fights. You'd often might find yourself having easier life killing a pharah or a flanker due to the more damage you do against them if you're accurate. Also his flash is an extremely helpful tool to shutdown characters who rely on abilities.
First, (probably the biggest reason) he's really fun to play. Second, he can stop flankers dead in their tracks so if you need to peel for your support you can help your healers while also dealing frontline damage. Lastly, the headshot "dinks" are an addiction.
My aim with McCree is insane. 60-70%, which makes him a killing machine. Flick shots are my thing.

My aim with soldier is absolutely shit. 15-35%. I can't track, and I don't know why.

So, McCree ends up being much more consistent, high dmg for me. His flashbang is also insanely good. 
As someone who got golden gun for McCree on his alt while he doesn't even play him much - he's hot. And his left click feels damn good
The potential to two-tap squishies, counter flankers and has a great CC.  
He has heavy damage potential in the right hands. I choose Mccree over Soldier in tight maps due to his range.   
Edit: And he's cool as shit? Who doesnt like a futuristic Cowboy?
You mentioned Tracer and Genji as flankers. These are two that McCree handles well. Because of that, I find him useful in protecting your healers. He is also adept at countering Pharah or taking out enemy healers on control maps.
cause he's dope
mccraig is good for people who flick aim
Mccrees headshot does more than a soldier rocket and it's hitscan
McCree rekt doomfist , period.
Against a 200 hp hero, McCree is usually better if you can hit your headshots and position safely/have tanks who make space. If you can't do either of those consistently, soldier is better.

Against tanks, shields, or if there is no established Frontline, soldier is better almost everytime. 

That being said, they both synergize with other characters so you have to take that into account. For example, one of my good buddies loves playing torb so when he does this, I almost always go McCree because the armor makes McCree hard to kill for flankers/winston and Torbs turret usually gets enough chip on squishies that a single headshot is enough to finish them off.
[deleted]
He counters flankers...what're u dumb?
Idk if I'd say the best mccree is better than the best soldier, maybe within his effective range and if unpressured. 
* he has lower skill floor actually 
> Also his flash is an extremely helpful tool to shutdown characters who rely on abilities. 

For sure. Flashbang is one of the best skills in the game IMO. It gives mccree so much utility in many different situations. Coordinating with your team to stun rein over his shield, stopping doomfist mid charge ( its hard to master it but once you do it will net you a kill every time he goes in), dealing with high mobility characters, stopping Dva's from entering into their mecas and rendering them useless for the rest of the fight, stopping enemy ults (roadhog, reaper...) 

His flashbangs utility is really good, but people underestimate it so much and think its only a dueling tool.


I've been playing mccree a lot in ffa and can confirm those dinks are audiable crack. 
Do you mind me asking what SR you play at?  A percentage of accuracy that high is insane,  aimbotcalvin and iddqd for instance aren't even that high
Tru. 
It wasn't the buff to his ult that increased his viability so much. I mean, sure it had some minor impact, but lately the bigger (probably *biggest*) influence has been the introduction of Doomfist.

DF is pretty vulnerable to McCree. Unless you can bait the flashbang or catch McCree unaware, DF is going to die to any decent McCree more often than not. And with DF's one shot capability that people are so annoyed about along with his high'ish pick rate, it has increased the need/desire to have McCree in the line-up. 

Plus, McCree is also relatively strong against Pharah (a bit more so than Soldier) and since Pharah is still an ever popular pick (she's also pretty strong against DF) then it makes sense to have a hit scan.

Also with the increase usage in Orisa and Rein since their respective, and arguably minor, buffs, it has given a bit of a rise to the slower barrier based team comps that McCree thrives in much more than a dive comp. The larger reason for Orisa and Rein's rise is also due to DF. Doomfist kind of trashes on dive comps and with Reapers recent change in how his healing mechanic works, he has seen some increased play and he absolutely dumps on tanks, Winston especially.

It's all kind of complex but to summarize, dive comp has all but gone away and the slower barrier comps have picked up viability and creates an environment that is much more suited for McCree.
Wrong sub mate. 
yeah soldier has incredible burst potential with helix and it's harder to hit those than a headshot with mccree
I would say hes the least forgiving of all DPS. He has no self heal and no escapes. Getting caught or being out of position when you are playing him is a death sentence unless you are able to outplay your opponents.
Oh God yes, when I land multiple dinks in a row it's awesome
Around 3900, but I tend to aim for center of mass, not headshots :) 
It also depends on his hs % , my acc is only about 50% but according to overbuff I'm in top 1% for hs
Helix is pretty easy to hit, the key is to aim at people's feet/at people next to walls, and you get very solid splash damage, useful for confirming kills after you chunk half of somebody's health. It's a fast enou projectile that once you get used to leading it you should always get respectable splash damage from it, even if you don't land a direct hit. 
when honyy is saying "lower skill floor" honyy is taking skill floor to mean "minimum usefulness" as opposed to "minimum skill required to be useful"
I'm wondering if he's some sort of aim prodigy or just has an inflated accuracy from shooting into a shield all day
Bad honyy
It could be but shooting shields is never a bad thing and I think Mccre can take them down pretty quick.
Uh if you aim for shields you should play soldier
So you are one of those people that dont shoot at shields? If there are no enemies to shoot at pretty much everyone should be trying to take down shields.

I usually do a right click, roll, right click to help take down a rein shield if there are no enemies to kill, this can be good at chokes.
Yeah that combo seems like it must do more damage than soldier over the same time.

OWUL Season 3: Enroll your team now!
##[**Season 3 of the Overwatch University League is here!**](https://www.owuniversity.com/)

**What:** An Overwatch competitive league for players of all skill levels, from Bronze to GM. The complete Rule Set can be found on our [website](https://www.owuniversity.com/).

**Who:** PC Overwatch players in the Americas and EU regions, in teams of 6-8. ALSO, coaches & casters looking to get practice & experience!

**When:** Signups are open until Friday, September 8th. Games begin Saturday, September 16th. Playoffs conclude Saturday, November 4th. Full schedule on our [website](https://www.owuniversity.com/).

**How:** Get a team of 6-8 players around your skill level and use the Signup Form on our [website](https://www.owuniversity.com/)! Find teammates on our [discord](https://discord.gg/owuniversity) or r/overwatchlft.

**Why:** Because Overwatch was meant to be a team game, no matter what your SR 

--------------------------------------------------------------------

**But I don't have a team!** Use this community, r/overwatchlft, the official [OWUL Discord](https://discord.gg/owuniversity), or any of the great PC Overwatch communities to join or recruit players around your skill level.
  
**Do you have this for console?** We want to launch for console Soon™, hopefully in season 4  

**Do you have this for AUS/other regions?** Not yet--we want to next season if at all possible!

**I'm interested in casting/coaching, can I get involved?** Absolutely! We have a great Entertainment team with access to working casters, overlays, experienced industry professionals and other resources that can help you develop your talent! As for coaching, we've partnered with WaWa's Boot Camp to launch a program for new coaches to get experience and work with coaching vets to learn the trade. Join our [discord](https://discord.gg/owuniversity) to be updated on sign ups.Really cool to see a league for all tiers. Shame the console question is a few seasons behind tho. 

Time limit on skirmish 'Create Game'
Hi,

I want to create a Ana*Only Headshot game in order to imporve my aim. 
I would like to set a time limit of 10 minutes, instead of the 30 minutes. I didn't find how to set it...Would appriciate the help, thanks!Not sure of in settings as I havent really messed with custom games but, theres a timer so why not just leave when the timer hits 20:00?
Yes, I thought about using an external 10 min timer, but I wanted to know if there's a simpler, built in way.
Thanks either way!

Did I get worse at overwatch
Started playing comp near the end of season 4 and ranked mid silver but now its season 6 and I ranked low bronze.  Am I getting worse.  If so how can I get better.  Has anybody else had a similar experience? Don't forget everyone else get better while you don't pay. A S2 Plat means maybe a high silver now? 
I almost got to silver once I increased pool of heroes I played. And I also played much more then, so I could keep playing tired or just cared less about each game.
Well yes it sounds like you've gotten worse. How did you do in season 5? Make sure you play lots of comp, it's the only way to learn.
what are you doing differently?
I spent season 1-4 in mid/high plat. This past season I couldn't get myself any higher than 2400. /Shrug apparently everyone else has been imrpoving but me lol
Mechanics are the easiest way to climb out of the lower tiers. Get yourself a decent mouse, find yourself a nice medium/low sens, Pick up a carry hero like soldier reaper or pharah and shoot peoples faces. 
This is low key kind of the toxic part of this sub. Everyone looking to come here and get better, sees this, they all lock DPS, no one knows how to tank or heal and it's a wild and unstructured killfest. "Shooting people's faces" doesn't capture objectives consistently, which gives you points, which wins you competitive games. That's when they come back and say "I'm all gold medals every game, why do my teammates suck and not join voice comms? I can't climb!"

Man it'd be so much easier to climb as a kickass Reinhardt or Mercy in bronze just solo healing or tanking with ease. Because, if you're doing your job properly, your team now has a functioning tank/healer and there's doesn't. Massive edge for you and your 5 teammates 
Learning soldier is the best thing I ever did for myself. Seconded really hard. 
Yeah honestly mercy is the best way to climb out of bronze imo. Literally no one shoots at you if you're not in the front lines. 
I suppose people view things differently. I'm not in the 'fill' category. I've had a lot of bad experiences filling. Most of the time someone else picks the hero I originally wanted to play and then plays them worse. Then even tho I'm tank we'll still lack healing and tanking. I actually play dps better than I do healers or tanks, sooo that's what I play. 

I was stuck in gold for like 3 seasons on Ana. I started dpsing and now i'm 2800. I could have been bad on ana, I'm guessing it was a mix of both being average at a hero and having low carry potential. 

If you're sr is accurate, filling would probably work well because the team comp is the best advantage you can add. If you legitimately belong in a higher elo, dps is by far the best way to climb. 

What are your number one zenyatta tips?
I've been given an account by a friend who no longer has time to play overwatch due to moving away to med school, and I've decided I'm going to main zen, so what are your number one tips?


I have two other accounts, one in high diamond where I only play hitscan DPS provided I have the choice, and one in plat where I play off tanks. I'm pretty good mechanically but my game sense really sucks ass, so I'm hoping playing Zen can teach me how to pay more attention. Use right clicks exclusively until you're in a heated fight. The burst damage spam can instakill a lot of heroes.


Stay way the fuck back, your balls have no damage fall off and your abilities are long ranged and only depend on LoS. Don't worry, you move SANIC fast when ulting, you'll be able to save your team.


Make sure you're weaving those Harmony and Discord orbs between attacks. Zen is a beast of a DPS but don't ignore his very important abilities.


Basic stuff like positioning, taking the high ground, and playing around corners. You can also get some gnarly kills by discording and hiding. You can see their position through the wall or floor because discord lasts two seconds without LoS, so you can assassinate them with your wall hax + 30% damage.


Be conservative with your ult. Don't get in the heat of the fight, taking a bunch of damage and being forced to use it. Ideally you'd wait for an enemy like soldier or genji to ult for you to counter it. If you're playing with Lucio make sure you coordinate so you don't both use your ults at the same time.
Everyone telling you to stay really far away as zen is wrong imo.  Stay back, of course, but an isolated zen is a dead zen.
Learn to prioritize discord targets. If it looks like your team is focusing someone (or is about to focus someone), discord them and they will melt. 

I generally don't bother calling out discords unless it's someone that **needs** to die but is being ignored like a pharah, or a genji in your back line. 
Use your discord to see people through walls. Place it on your target and fall behind cover to charge up your secondary shot. Use the discord to line up the shot and take them out before they can react. 

On the topic of the charge shot, charge when you can't do damage normally. Mei in ice block, genji deflecting, dva dming, zarya bubbled? Charge your shot and light them up when their defenses drop. 

A lot of people will say to stay way back, but I would advise against this. Personally I try to stay just behind my team. Far enough to avoid graviton and earth shatter, but close enough I can hide among my teammates when flanked. 

Don't worry about tracer. Stay calm and discord her. The orbs have a large enough hitbox to head shot fairly easily when she's close enough to be a threat. As long as you can see or predict her coming she won't be too bad. Genji is more of a problem. I find running to the closest tank and tag teaming to be the best way to deal with him. I've found if you are dived by d. va discording her, getting as close to her as you can while jumping around her and spamming your primary fire works well. Never run or panic when you get flanked. Always have a plan and stay close enough to your team so they can help. You are too slow to run from a flanker. Strafing and fighting back is your best bet to survive. 

Don't hold onto your ult unless you believe 76, reaper, or other high DOT ults or a cc ult is about to be used. It comes back quickly. Use it in a team fight to keep your tanks alive when they get focused. Try not to panic use your ult when you are about to die. Often times you'll just delay your death and not help your team if you panic use it. Transcendence is also good for getting an indicisive team to push through the choke.

Call out your discord. Prioritize supports and tanks. If your team aren't going after your discorded targets look for who they are targeting and put your discord on them. 

Assist your flankers by throwing a harmony orb on them. It lasts for 3sec out of los, so it's great for them. 

Most importantly, even though you do great damage, you are a support first and foremost. General gameplay priority is heal-->discord-->damage. 
Here comes #1 tip. No jokes, the most important thing you have to keep in mind while playing Zen. 

ALWAYS make sure your harmony orb is on someone. Don't forget you're a support hero, you need to do max healing possible. Whatever you do if you're not doing this - you're playing Zen wrong.

Once you master it, you can focus on having your discord in game like 99% of the time. That's your second great advantage.
If you need to heal someone *immediately*, but are in the midst of a charge-up shot, using your melee will instantly cancel it and allow you to heal right away.
Embrace tranquility
The best thing you can do is learn to shot call with Zen.  Call out discords and request for peel when needed, otherwise you're dead.  



I say this with love and affection: don't forget to fucking heal.
Keep your orbs on someone as much as possible, even when not in a fight.
 Spam corners with RMB or LMB.
 Call out your discorded targets and coordinate with your divers.
Other than that, watch your positioning and don't forget you can also ult aggressively (although very situational)
If you see someone fighting 1on1, put discord + harmony on them and shoot another target. Assuming equal skill, your teammate would win the fight while you can focus on taking out someone else. 

That is one of the greatest things about zen, you can do 2 things at the same time. 
Learn positioning before learning anything else. Zenyatta is so slow that you can't use mobility to get you out of bad positioning. You want to be positioning yourself where you are able to always be doing damage from a distance, you have cover/an escape route if the fight goes south, you can see most of your teammates all at once. Improving positioning alone gained me about 700 sr when I first started. 

After your positioning is solid, work on your Discord/Healing target selection along with knowing how to get maximum value out of your charged shots. For Discord target selection you will always get more value out by putting it on targets that are already getting shot at by your teammates. The only exception is if you get split from your team and have to 1v1 somebody. Think of your Discord similar to a Zarya bubble. It works a lot better if your target is already taking damage. As for the harmony orbs remember that your healing per second is low but over time it can rack up. Can't tell you how many times I've gotten gold healing with Zenyatta but it's more than half of my games. Before the fight really breaks out you want to keep your healing orb on people who are poking at the front. Zarya and D.va are my favorite targets in these situations. But once the fight breaks out you want to prioritize characters with low maximum HP because you will be healing up a higher percentage of their health per second. This way you can keep the valuable teammates alive mid fight. As for the charged shots you can start charging around corners and then spam it into areas where you know enemies will be. This will help you avoid poke damage and give you some one shot potential. Which can really delay an enemy team's push if you land a charge shot as they are regrouping. Charged shots are also really great for winning duels. If somebody you is coming for you you can put a Discord on them to learn their positioning through walls. Use a wall for cover to start up your charged shot then as you see them come around the corner release the shot for some dirty burst damage.

Hope all of that helps. Zenyatta is my most played hero. He's easily the best healer for carrying. I'd argue that he can carry better than most DPS and tanks as well for the simple fact that he can do multiple jobs. He can do the role of Healing, DPS with his own orbs, and utility with Discord. 
Don't die. Seriously. Learning what situations will and won't kill you is huge. The second you die your orbs fall off, your damage is gone, and your ult won't save anyone. Enemy genjis and zaryas in particular will be bloodthirsty and hunt you down when they have their ults; don't let them.
rip I only have #2 tips
Bind discord orb to right click and alt fire to shift, you'll thank me later 
I personally don't play zen, but my brother does and he does wonders as a companion healer to Lucio (who I play mostly). Both these characters tend to be magnets for teammate coordination, especially with Zen's discords. He's particularly good at countering Pharah IMO because teammates can capitalize on discords and melt her out of the skies. As a general pointer, I'd say to make sure your teammates follow up on discords, since it's such a great ability that a group can take advantage of. 

Another general thing I've noticed is simply to not use your ult in a panic, self preservation line of thought. As with pretty much all the ultra, it's important to consider what the numbers are in a teamfight and if saving just yourself and maybe one other teammate against a 5 or 6 person advancing team is worth it, which it usually wouldn't be unless you know a lot of reinforcements are about to jump in to help you. 
Stay at a distance, people tend to forget that Zen has NO FALL OFF DAMAGE, so he can literally shoot as far away as he wants, while healing/discording people at full damage. Peak corners at a distance with your charged 5-Shot. and ALWAYS call out your discords. A quiet Zen on voice chat is a dead Zen and a waste for the team, unless you're carrying because you're so good.
Be discording your flankers and keeping them in check constantly. Always be hyper aware and if you don't see them find them and discord. Someone recently made an amazing guide on this I wish I could find the video.
always be with your second healer (mostly lucio cuz you're slow and can't instantly self-heal), always put harmony orb on your flanker (cuz they're squishy) and finally when using transcendence put harmony orb on your teammate and discord orb on enemy

note: i know this is more than 1 tip but this really helped me with zen
you will be in the back lines, so pay attention to what is going on, call discords. use your charge to destroy people (around corners, in chokes, etc)
Especially in a dive heavy meta like this one, I think the thing that helped me the most is learning when my aggressive teammates are about to start taking damage so I can pre-emptively harmony them and the rest of our team can focus the threat closest to us.
Keep your discord and harmony orbs out all the time. As soon as they come back, send them back out again on the highest priority targets available.

If you don't have anyone who actively needs healing, keep your harmony orb on a tank or a flanker, whoever's most likely to take damage next. Discords should be prioritized to whoever's causing your team the most trouble, or any linchpins the enemy team is relying on, such as a single tank / healer. Call them out if they're not in the center of a teamfight, especially a pharmercy or a flanker harassing you from behind.

Stay back and keep firing. Charge right clicks when you don't have a target, and melee to cancel if no one shows up before it fires. Once the main fight starts, just keep spamming shots.
positioning positioning positioning .
When you release your right click, while the orbs are being released, you can get an extra melee in, for no added cost. 
DON'T SPAM!
When you're getting flanked, your best defense is to kill them. Stay calm, discord them, start ADAD strafing, and aim hit some headshots. Charge up a volley when Genji deflects.
Always be charging a five ball, never know when it'll help
i recently made this [guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Sk8kk72J7zZ2U0aSIcoZrX5oc4yak52AFilMFE30W9o/edit?usp=sharing) maybe it will help
Spam the fucking shit out of Orb of Discord when you're engaged 
Also always remember to kick excessively 
Holding right click will summon 5 orbs, you can release them as soon as they line up over your screen as they charge up no more damage beyond that.  

Another easier way to see if you're ready to shoot the charged up/max damage amount of orbs while not losing focus on your aim, is paying attention to Zenyatta's knuckle animations. They tend to release tension and his fingers raise up as soon as the fifth orb is ready to release. 
Right click to charge your balls first, then spam discord after firing on the target for surprise amounts of damage 
The advice I heard which helped me most is this: your #1 priority in early game is to have ult before the enemy Genji/Soldier. As soon as you *have* ult, your priority is to be in a position where you can use it (ie not dead, ideally close enough to prevent the first pick).

Transcendence is incredibly powerful (unless you're going up against an Ana), so the best way to improve is to maximise the effectiveness and frequency of your ults. That means don't ult just to keep yourself alive (not necessarily bad, but it means you mis-played somehow if you're getting killed)
I main Zenny and play pretty well I think. I've been  picking up my dps game as of late (mainly tracer) and o boy can you tell when you're playing with a  good Zen.
A good zen will cord their high priority targets (healers preferably) long enough for me to dive and attack them. A lot of Zena seem to leave it on a target for a millisecond and then get distracted. You leave it for a enough time so I dive they MELT. And then they're healing me too. 

 Be that guy. 
Is it a good idea to keep discords on their tanks until another threat arises? I see a lot of Zen players just flinging the discord around to whatever they're shooting at.
> Use right clicks exclusively until you're in a heated fight. The burst damage spam can instakill a lot of heroes.

I disagree with this a little. If you are way in the back where you should be you'll be unlikely to get a lucky burst kill and the extra dps is better with left click. Especially if they have any sort of barrier tank. Once they are a bit closer but not on top of you right click is great.
Yeah, this is suicide in the dive meta.

Stay mid-line, close to obstacles you can hide behind to regen if you get in a fight. Anchor tanks are your bested friends, you can pump out a lot of damage from relative safety, discord the enemy front-line, and keep aggressive allies healed in the thick of battle. Just remember to look around for allies who need healing and keep them topped off as much as possible; a zen who isn't healing is giving up half their purpose!
Yeah, hug those tanks bb. That's how you live with Zen. Any time you're not within 5 meters of a teammate, you're dead.
I agree, you can only play really far back if there team doesn't ever push your back line, which is rare
Depends who you're against. If they don't have any good flankers you're pretty safe really far back. Usually that isn't the case though so you wanna be closer to your team.
You're probably better than me, but as Tracer, it really helps me to hear Discord callouts. I often don't have LOS to the Discorded hero when the Orb goes out, so a Hero callout (and location if they're not on the objective) is really helpful.
I play a similar way cus my callouts are kinda shit because I hyperfocus a lot.  
I tend to keep my eye on all the scrimmages and see which vulnerable target could benefit from being discorded. 
Every time I see this tip I'm like how can there be Zen players that don't heal? And then I get in a game with a DPS who decides to flex heal but only on Zen so I decide to play a different support and see that they're barely healing and never get transcendence during a round of KoTH and it hurts my heart.  
I dont know why this isn't higher up. I have almost 400 hours on mercy but I played about 2 hoyra zen after reading the topic of this thread and would have loved to have known this.
His ult is something I definitely struggle with- the only time I use it is when everyone is caught in a grav, or if we're caught up in a small place after a big ult is dropped. I also try to use it to contest in overtime, and maybe with genji's dragonblade if the time is right. Even overall, ultimates are something I suck at in this game.
I do both my orbs on mouse wheel up/down. Alt fire is right click. It's genius
Heals and discords have a range to cast the orbs, though you're right there's no fall off damage...
One suggestion I would make is to not move your discord around constantly. Give your teammates a little time to react and start taking advantage of it. Otherwise, you get situations where you remove the discord while the target is taking damage.
> ying around corners. You can also get some gnarly kills by discording and hiding. You can see their posi

Depends on your team. If they can focus someone, get the orb on whoever needs to die, or whoever they are focusing. If you're in lower ranks where everyone is doing whatever the fuck they want, just put the orb on whoever you're shooting at, or whoever your best DPS is shooting at.
Keeping it on one target for as long as you can is always better, as it allows you to call it out reliably and give your team a chance to focus down that target. What this means for you is putting it on the thing that needs to die, which is a big judgement call for you, and it can change and you have to update the discord target. So maybe when you first engage it's that pesky Dva that is protecting her whole team, so put it on her. But then suddenly Winston jumps your backline and is frying you and Mercy, well obviously now that monkey needs to die so put discord on him. So there are genuine reasons for switching discord targets, but only when the thing that needs to die the most has truly changed.
Priorities IMO. First:
1. Mercy boost/healing a Pharah or Bastion
2. Anyone shielding a Bastion
3. Non-boosted Pharah or Bastion

Then, barring a Pharah or Bastion, whoever is getting focused (hopefully a Healer), unless you have a Genji diving on you.

Also, call your Discords. Ideally your teammates will see the Orb, but a flanker may not have LOS to whoever is Discorded. It helps my Tracer play a *ton* when I play with my friend who always calls his Discord.
If it's rein/orisa and they're staying behind their shields and your flankers are not targeting them, definitely discord someone else.

Also keep in mind that zarya's bubbles remove your discord and so does tracer's rewind, sombra's translocator, reaper's wraith form and mei's cryofreeze.
Yes, I agree on barrier tanks. If there is absolutely nothing else worth shooting at you can hold LM on it.


However, I disagree with the distance rule. Okay, let's say you are just so far away from the fight that it's pure luck if any of your shots land. If you hold LM then a lucky shot landing would mean a bit of damage. OK. If you had fired a RM volley it could easily mean a kill or at least much more damage than a single shot. Much better.
Most of Zen's ult charge comes from doing damage anyways, so he must have been doubly bad.
Definitely try to save for genji ults as less reaction time is necessary there and it can be so devastating. soldier is easy to counter too, pharah and reaper you gotta be quick. But the ult counters are very often the move rather than guessing maybe if you'll save your team. I feel like purely healing non ult counter ones are often an already lost fight. 

If you can land shots you can get ult back pretty quick. I like to have silver damage but you gotta be securing kills, so the damage would really be from burning tanks.

Back to ult, learn not to panic ult on junkrats, divas, bastions and like mccree. Instant kill ults will blow right through your peaceful aura.
Don't forget you can use transcendence to initiate a team fight as well. Especially if you have a Lucio who is going to have barrier soon, you can use trans to essentially "heal tank" the initial push and win the fight, then depend on lucio to protect when they ult later.

I think Trans can be a good stall tactic to facilitate a planned trickle on KOTH maps as well, if you own the point and can benefit from simply stalling as long as possible.
When to ult also depends on how your teammates counter the enemy. If you have an Ana on your team you can afford to ult ult to save your team and keep a push alive even if you know a Pharah has her ult. Communication is something I still need to improve, but making sure someone else can counter the stuff Zen usually watches for allows you to pump out a shit load of healing as you charge ults pretty fast.
I hold ult for dragonblade always. If they're not running a Genji I'll usually responsively pop ult to other offense ults or grav, but if I see that we can secure a teamfight and have another defense ult up soon or up already I'll use trans just to make sure we cap a point. 

Personally I think it's more of a midfight ult than an initiating ult like lucio's because it requires the team to stay with you, and they can't move forward as quickly so best to do it in the middle of things but make sure to end with your ult in a position out of the center of the fight if it doesn't work in your favor.  
I'm not the best at Zen's ult but I usually pop it if priority teammates are dying or if I'm dying in a big fight. Or just when tanks are getting critical.
Otherwise I'd second this, except people are starting to get wise to the discord and just LoS it off nowadays. That in itself can be a good thing as it takes them out of the situation for a few seconds, but I wouldn't rely on the discord sticking around for very long.
If you have a lucio with ult soon I think it's better to wait and initiate with that and speed boost, and save Zen for whenever it's needed after sound barrier runs out. Zen's ult is more easily countered (mei wall, Ana nade, knockbacks)making it less ideal for pushing in. Lucio's ult doesn't require you to stay together once it's cast 

If there is no lucio you can still do it to brute force heal your way through a choke point, but you really need to communicate it to ppl and move together to gain maximum effectiveness out of it, otherwise it can easily be a wasted ult that isn't there to counter an enemy dps ult. 
Trans + speedboost is pretty damn good on koth
Fair enough, but it sounded like OP was holding on to ults for far too long and wondering how to use them.
I'd rather use sound barrier tbh.
You're right it is a valid and effective strategy, and it's definitely something worth being aware of. I just mean to say it's tougher to use than Lucio's. 

Last season: almost Platinum, open Season 6 0-10 placement. What do you do when suddenly you suck?
I'm a longtime reader of this forum, first time poster. I don't know what happened but this round of placement was the worst, most frustrating experience in my entire OW experience (playing since launch). In every other season I'd get at least 2-3 matches where my team would work together and win, or I'd go up against people who were worse than I was. My mains are Junk/D.Va/Soldier, and I'll flex Lucio/Reaper/Zarya as needed. 

This season? 0-10, defeats straight across the board. I took breaks, I changed up when I would be playing, warmed up in QP, and every single placement game I got steamrolled. Some games we'd end up getting camped at spawn; the best performing match my team capped a point only to get denied the second point and then railroaded on the switch. Did anyone else have this happen? Am I alone in an island of suddenly sucking? Season 5 I was scratching at the door of 2500 Platinum (2398SR was my career high) and was looking forward to maybe finally breaking through. Now it seems like even after a losing streak that's gone 12 games (I tried two more this morning and while one almost went our way, it turned again and we never even got close to the point again). I'm wondering if I should abandon Competitive altogether and just stick with QP and Mayhem."Rock bottom became the solid foundation on which I rebuilt my life."
--JK Rowling

I see lots of people in arcade who go like 1-9 and they never play again competitive. The only time these people wanna play is when the new season starts up. Thinking: Oh god, this time might be different! 

>even though I don't practice my aim

>watch VODs

>constantly blame everyone on my team

>or make general goals of how to improve my own play
it happens - what did end at and after going 0-10 this season what did you place at?
I've found gold is tough because people are really inconsistent in performance, and morale can be easily lost losing a team the whole game when they could have grouped up and make more solid pushes.



So wins and losses will be inconsistent, and this frustration will make you play worse sometimes too.


You can post your gameplay though, and with solid improvements you can sometimes be the difference maker in winning.
I can help you reach diamond. If you're interested I can coach you and play with you. (Masters) just tell me region. I believe I can analysis your mistakes and help you climb the ladder.
I've played all 6 seasons and I've gone thru 3 really bad losing streaks...10+ losses in a row. It happens.  the winning streaks come just as easily. Find a good teammate to duo and if you find a group of try hards who you may have chemistry with then maybe go full  6 stack. My best win streaks were with 4-6 stacks who we just gel'ed with. 
I noticed there were a lot of stacks in my placements. I think all my games had two 2 stacks, one 3 stack or one 4 stack on both sides. The skill level within them can vary wildly. It seemed pretty random to me, so you could just be extremely unlucky. Also the meta seems to have changed, since there are plenty of Junkrat and Roadhog players now.
It happens. I went 3-7 after being high gold most of the time. So far I've slipped with 1-2-1 after placement to 1700. It's not fun I know, the crazy thing is it happened last season too. I placed mid 2000 then went on a record of like 7-20 dropped to silver and then mid way through the season managed to pull my win rate to roughly 50-50 and got back into gold. 

Don't abandon comp altogether pal, there's so much more to the game than SR, just give it a break either other stuff or QP and come back later. 
Matchmaking is supposed to be a little more accurate this season. 

But my suggestion is to learn 1 hero and insta lock. Not from any SR advantage standpoint but because it's sometimes easier to play 1 hero for some people. For me if I fill it's a steamroll most of the time. If I play my main, all is gravy. 
Well I had four gsmes with leavers or disconnects on my alt.
Placements were a nighmare, I went 2-8, and one of those was a disconnect that was not on my end and would not let me reconnect, so insta-loss and 10 minute ban. Woo. I ended season 5 in high gold, where I was often the only gold ranked player on either team, and I placed at around 1750 this season. Absolutely laughable. I have no idea what was going on at all, but I have gone 14-2 since, and it's just been a steady climb.
It has been said but yeah take a week break, simple as that. Come back later, don't overthink. Your skill did not vanish, rest assured. If you keep pushing it now you will add psychological pressure uselessly.
Forgive yourself and enjoy your climb :) 
I practice.

Not sure what answer you were expecting other than this.
What sr did you get after placements and what sr did you finish on last season?

I wouldn't worry too much anyway, placements are always a shit show.
Shit happens just try to improve, maybe your just having a bad luck in matchmaking.

Losing does not mean that you played bad, you could have the game of your life but still lose in overwatch.


I would take a break from comp for a bit. Try to have some fun with the game again (remember, it is just a game afterall).

Figure out what game mode you have fun with (maybe the new Deathmatch or FFA?) or heros and play them for a while until you get comfortable with the game again. THen i would jump back into comp.

If you feel like you want to abandon comp, then go for it. No reason to stress yourself out of get anxiety from something you can avoid.
I landed at around 1976, the lowest I've ever placed. I'm just trying to get a grasp on what/why all of a sudden every team I'm facing is mowing right over my team--is it just bad luck?
I agree with this. Climbing from bronze to almost diamond has made me realize how angry gold makes me. People have the talent to play well, but there is a ton of inconsistency, and when someone makes a shitty hero pick the entire team implodes. I spent THE longest time in gold due to this. 
Broooooooooooooo o. Let me telllll you. I finished season 4 @3200. I barely played comp season 5 so I only finished at 2800, (diamond reward) and this season I do all my placements, place at 2300. If you could explain. That would be wonderful. 
I've been a diamond before. For some reason, I can't seem to reach it again. I usually play Reinhardt, though I can branch out to different characters (or at least I think I can) and float to whatever the team needs. For the first few seasons I steadily climbed to Diamond, and regularly play with people that are at Diamond/Master level. Yet, after my placements (and not doing the last season save for placement matches), I'm stuck in the low-end of gold and can't seem to climb out. Any tips/thoughts/pointers? Thanks in advance.
honestly, I've been in some pretty awful games so far in my placements - like 3/5 that I've played have been absolute train wrecks as far as tanks charging in alone, DPS trying to 1v6 the enemy team, and other supports playing like DPS

I feel like everyone is still in "hehe, season's almost over, let's troll" mentality
Same thing happened to me last season - I finished S4 at ~2700, went like 3-7 in placements where most of the matches were just curb stomps one way or the other - and got placed at 2150. 

It is the most frustrating god damn experience getting out of that rank when you're at least used to (somewhat) coordinated team comps. What you can expect is an extremely frustrating grind back up to your normal SR, which annoyingly is likely where your MMR is at. 
Did you change anything that you did before? Play new heroes/flex not performing any decent stats?
bad luck. Im sure you can climb the 400 SR back to around where you were
I went 5-4-1 in placements but there wasn't a single good game. Every win my team basically smashed the other team. Every loss my team got smashed. I'm talking seriously lopsided games. Even the draw was a pretty shitty game. We ended up stonewalling them in defense hanamura. They may have touched the point once, didn't move the marker at all. Then on our attack they stonewalled us. Luckily the games after my placement have been a bit better.

This was in high bronze low silver range so take it with a grain of salt because a lot of the games in this range are extremely lopsided. Finished last season at my career high 1675 and placed in 1573. Back to 1614 right now.
I find plat harder to escape. 
Your placements is based somewhat on where you finished last season and you said you didn't play much so that's probably why. If you're good enough then you will climb out easily. I finished 2800 last season too but I placed 3300 this season. I was a Master player though.
Try to analyze why you're dying. Do you often give enemy team picks? You can always share VOD and the subreddit and me will watch it and write a review
There's also a real issue with aim on a lot of hitscan making DPS players be really inconsistent. Widow/soldier/McCree especially, whether it's a bug or a change in how the netcode works that will require adjustment idk. Ive been mostly doing tanks as want to get good at tanking this season, but when I was doing dm earlier I could def notice a drastic decrease in my ability to hit, thought was just me having an off time, then noticed several pros are saying the same thing.

So even if team is actually tryharding, matches are kinda weird feeling right now
ive tried to be a good teammate, picking last, calling out targets that are low, telling them to be careful of enemy ults etc and nothing works, i say a good 60% of my games i get a guy who insta locks an off meta hero and has a terrible winrate on it and we lose cause its basically 5v6. losing my love for the game fast, and ive only just done my placements
Really? Weird. It's been much easier for me to climb thru plat then gold was. 
Thanks! I did a couple of matches that I streamed that you can find here:

If you need more, let me know. Stream's FPS is kind of meh because I didn't have time to configure the settings properly. Last game I had a healer and I quit. It was a Hanzo that, when asked to play a healer, just left the game and knocked me down to where my SR began. I'm really tired of this lol.

https://www.twitch.tv/videos/171811868
3300 hitscan main, can confirm the aim with hitscan feels REALLY off, few other friends have confirmed this, even one of my tank friends noticed this.
is that actually true? It would explain why I've been gold almost every game so far in competitive with tanks....I've been getting a little frustrated internally! 
Though not directly related to the hitscan issue, and probably affecting less games, but the Orisa change right before Comp season really wrecked my aim. The change is good, but after playing Orisa almost exclusively & getting good at aiming her weapon against fast targets, a lot of that muscle memory went out the window and I'm having to reinvent the wheel this season.
same, been resisting the call to pick up WoW again...but constantly losing at Overwatch due to reasons out of my control isn't fun anymore

totally agree
Gold was ez,  Im 3300 on my main and 3200 on a another account, I'm curgently struggling to get a 3rd account out of plat.
First death - You held well till you chased the doomfist and gave enemy team an easy life to pass the choke in the gate, you shouldn't be the one chasing flankers, instead call your team and tell them there's a flanker behind us and let a dps/2nd mobile tank do the work. That caused you die to because it let enemy team have the jump on you.

Second death - You could've killed the doomfist but missed way too many swings and firestrike, you should work on your combat as rein so you won't fuck up easy kills as rein is pretty powerful at the closer ranges. Also I feel like you should've done a bit more damage
 to that tracer you went to engage. Don't stop swinging your hammer when she uses recall but be ready to hit her again once she's done recalling, if you keep an eye on the tracer before she recalls you can predict where she gonna stop and you can continue unleashing dmg on her.

Third death - Orisa might've been a good pick to stall but you almost had ult as rein, I think you should've stayed rein for a bit more, fight on more and then come with the big shatter and save the point as its a pretty good ability if you can hit it. Also if you're gonna change I think d.va could've been better to hold, you can block tracer/reaper gun and delay for a good time for your team. use self destruct when they destroy your mech when you need to stall and that's even more stalling.

Good 2k at orisa though after the death, it was a really nice picks to help your dps hold it!

You are going too agressive when you don't need to and you need to watch out for your positionning. you went too agressive on orisa and almost killed yourself but the enemy team didn't took advantage of that. you died on point afterwards but I can't really blame you, the heals were pretty meh from the healers.

Sixth death - That bomb from tracer was pretty unlucky but when you think about it, if you waited for the shift cd to finish before ulting you could've saved yourself.

Next round - Your charge was a bit too risky but the team went with you which was a nice touch and helped you survive. Watch out when you charge with rein. You wanna charge when there's a good chance you will get someone with you and you won't go that far it'll make you die. 

Pretty good combat fighting on point B, got ult fast and also used it well. Also the ana charge was nice. The zen charge was a bit risky but the team capped so it doesn't matter


Ninth death as orisa on round 3 Point A - Eh, can't blame you so much for that, maybe should've went a bit back or told your team to hold closer to point, that might've helped. you are doing fine as orisa.

You held point B really well, you were good and stayed with the team except the part you chased hog in 1v1, only fight hog as rein if your team with you or he's extremely low and his healing on cd as road is very powerful against reins on solo 1v1s. i feel like you should've did maybe better with the shatter at the end, the stun on the hog was ok so prevent his ult but maybe if prioritize stuns on more important targets like tracer as she's pretty good to kill with stun due to the fact she can't use her abilities during that and is a free kill. But overall you did okay.

To sum up, you are a good rein player but you should work on more 
on map awareness and positionning. but you are not too bad from the average player. I can see you at least getting plat (if not higher) if you keep playing like that and improving. Also I recommend you using mic as it's a better way to communicate with your team during the action and call important stuff your team need to do. The caller role in the mic synergies well with being a rein.
thanks I"ll review once I am available later today
Oh thank goodness, it's not just me. I thought I'd suddenly forgotten how to Widow/Soldier
I rarely play DPS but I noticed this as well and just assmed it was me. (I had played a lot of R6 and Destiny 2 so I thought I just lost my feel for Overwatch.)

Is this being discussed anywhere?

EDIT: I found it.

https://www.reddit.com/r/Competitiveoverwatch/comments/6xet7k/your_mouse_input_is_being_buffered_to_the_next/

Thanks! I'll try to be better about the things listed. My main issue is trust of my teammates tbh. I don't believe they can get the job done tbh, which leads me to overextending or chasing and likely causing problems. I'll try to be better about that.

For the mic issue, I have a mic and regularly use it, I just for some reason couldn't get it to work on those first few matches. I'll do some more streams when it's working :)

As said previously, I was a diamond rank at one point, slowly on my way to master. Is there anything you saw expressly keeping me from ranking up? More stuff I need to work on? Thanks again, and I appreciate your help!
Not a problem! Going out of town tomorrow, but I'll check when I get a chance :) I appreciate it!
lolnope, have a friend who finished #83 and he said it feels fast as fuck too, like mouse acceleration or something. 

Chances of carrying/getting carried in solo queue
So, there's a rule of thumb I've heard regarding solo queueing. It says that about 33% of the time, you're going to be put on a weak team against a much stronger team, and you'll lose no matter how well you play. At the same time, about 33% of the time you will be on the stronger team, and even if you screw up and play badly your team is going to carry you. It's only the middle 1/3 of the time that your performance will actually make a difference.

I was curious what that looked like, with real probabilities. Let's say that each player's performance in a game is a standard normal random variable--mean 0, standard deviation 1. You sum up the value of the 6 players on each team, and the higher team value wins the match. 

Because you only have influence on your own performance, and each player is independent, this means that the enemy team's performance is a normal distribution with mean 0, and standard deviation sqrt(6). Likewise, the total performance of the other five people on the team is a normal distribution with mean 0 and standard deviation sqrt(5). 

This means that the threshold of success you personally need to contribute to win a game follows a normal distribution with mean 0, standard deviation sqrt(11). Meanwhile, your actual performance is no different than anyone else's, being N(0,1).

What this means is this:

* 24% of the time, you're going to lose, unless you turn into a god and play at the top 1% of your personal skill curve. 
* 11% of the time, you are going to lose unless you can hard carry your team, by giving a performance at or above the top 10% of your skill curve.
* 11% of the time, you're going to get carried as long as you don't make any major mistakes. As long as you don't perform below your 10th percentile of personal skill, your team will win without you.
* 24% of the time, your performance is basically irrelevant. Anything short of intentionally throwing and feeding the enemy team (above your 1st percentile of games) will result in a win.
* The remaining 30% of the time, the threshold for personal success falls within your 10th percentile to your 90th percentile of performance. These are the games that are winnable or loseable.

Depending on how you tweak your performance compared to random pubs, and how you define "unwinnable" and "unloseable" games, these values could be anywhere from 25/50/25 to 40/20/40, but I personally think the rule of thumb of 33/33/33 is pretty close to accurate.One thing to consider. If you win games consecutively, in my experience you are usually placed with better opponents (higher SR, higher season high, higher level) and expected to carry for a win. 
If what you're saying is true, I would say in the decisive 33% of games that just playing a decent comp and not making questionable decisions would get you the win most of the time. 
Strictly on the math: I get this is an abstraction but keep in mind that the 12 players in a game ARE NOT independent. Therefore, you cannot do a simple convolution to determine the variance. In fact, I would say that they're very strongly correlated, as long as the SR system is working as intended. 

And, more than anything, saying that the distribution is N(0,1) means... what, exactly? What does an expectation of 0 mean here? Is it meaningful? Arguably, it isn't since "performance" is an aggregate of several observable and unobservable dependent variables (that cannot be considered by fixed effects or something similar). In general, when we try to model things like this, the only thing that gets a normality assumption are the error terms. 

Perhaps you can try something like a Wilcoxon Rank-Sum instead. Then, you make no parametric assumptions about the population and you only need to assume that the populations are identical (and for the most part, it is).

Honestly, in general I agree with the crux of the argument: you need to play substantially better than your rank in order to "carry" the game. And here, I consider carrying to be winning with a substantially higher than 50% win-rate.
I can add my experience.
(taken from my previous thread: https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/6vbznr/what_happened_to_win_streaks/dm1gkes/ )

So I tried to smurf my way from Bronze to Platinum. In reality my gains were slow so this data only goes from Bronze (796 SR) to Gold (2028 SR). I'm not like those grandmaster/t500 streamers doing a smurf climb, but I definitely hard carried a lot of games. I had 53 wins (75.7%) and 17 losses (24.3%) for a total of 70 games. Longest winstreak was 14 wins, and I did not notice any significant win streak rewards. Note that this climb was done after Blizzard nerfed (or more likely, completely removed) win streaks. So these 70 games were simply a brutal and grueling grind, despite getting 50+ elims and 30, 40, 50 headshots many games.

So I guess to directly answer your question, I would say that the chances of completely unwinnable games is around 20-25%. In my anecdotal experience, the biggest cause was simply that my team was not good enough, or not coordinated enough, or did not play well enough. I know that people like to blame leavers, trolls, and toxicity, but those factors were not significant enough in my game. I would also say that 25% is a higher bound, and likely to be much lower if you didn't autolock Hanzo/Widow and refuse to communicate with the team like I did.

So if:

1. you're a smurf

2. you play meta or otherwise play what your team needs

3. preferably playing DPS or any hero capable of hard carrying

4. communicate with your team

then I'd bet the number of completely unwinnable games might be closer to 15% (rough estimate).
You confused the shit out of me and I have no idea if that math is at all accurate. All I know is that this rule that you can only carry a certain percentage of your games is bogus because that assumes your skill level in proportion to your rank. If you look at top 500 players who do bronze to gm series you will see that you can certainly carry every single game you play if your skill level is high enough. So I think taking an abstract view is a better way to look at it. The further away you are from your true rank the more you will be able to influence your games for the better or worse. This is why grandmaster players who create smurfs usually end up in grandmaster anyways. 
If each player is represented as a distribution, and there are six players, you'd multiply not add, assuming you're using a maximum likelihood framework. There is also no reason to assume skill for an individual player is normally distributed.
It might have been 33% if on a 3 man team. But not on a 6 man one. Also, that's not how probability works. There are too many variables for just number of players too matter.

Simple fact is, for any variables to balance out in this game you'd be looking at trillions or more games because of the sheer AMOUNT and severity of the variables that you cannot control. And that's all if the ranking algorythm is right. Which it isn't, because if it was it wouldn't need to be changed. Which is happening. 

So all in all, your rank is irrelevant everyone is in the wrong place and we could easily prove this with a rank reset. 

Lots of people would be shocked.
Playing reaper I carry about 43% of my matches counting wins only
Which is... infuriating.
I don't think this is true.
One of the assumptions that I glossed over was that your contribution random variable has the same average as everyone else (0.0), which is true if you've stablized at your true skill level.

But, if you're smurfing or have recently improved, your average skill level may by higher. If you're really a platinum player among bronze, you don't need to perform much above your personal average to outweigh everyone else's performance.
But that's not true. Yes, it's an absolute fact that a GM will always end up back in GM. It's not true that there is no such thing as an unwinnable game. Even on Smurf climbs, t500 players will drop a handful of games because they are simply unwinnable. They just never lose a game that has the potential to be won.
It helps move smurfs up faster though.  I dunno if you've ever had a smurf account but as soon as you start trying it seems like their system recognizes it and starts placing you far above your visible rating, even skipping whole tiers.  The downside is likely that if you perform far above average during a streak then it probably thinks you're a smurf as well and gives you the same treatment.
That is true. I was just speaking about the "completely unwinnable" percentage; games where you were not supposed to win in the first place, and that the teams are so stacked that you have to be playing at like a grandmaster level to even think about winning.
Hmm, I have smurfed once and have watched a few bronze to GM streams (including Steve O who won his first like 55 games) and haven't experienced/noticed this at all.
It's SO fast. I made a smurf and fucked around with hanzo and shit for a while before I realized I needed to win to hit 25 faster. I started trying hard with tracer and the game took me from playing with actual new players to smurfs and levels appropriate to my main in probably less than 10 games. 
This was more back in Season 3/4, they changed it to be less aggressive if I remember it right. 

My friend stopped playing Overwatch and gave me his account to do whatever I wanted with it. He was Silver, I started playing and after 4 games with every win I was being placed 100-150SR higher than the previous match. I think I got 2000SR in one day even with a couple of losses in between.
I mentioned this because I just had this happen to me when I decided to try to push up a smurf from silver to diamond on the last day of S5.  By the time I hit gold it was putting me in plat matches.
I made a smurf account and by level 9 I was getting 4 minute queue times for quick play (playing solo) and it only matched me with other smurfs and level ~500 players. 
Ah yes, that certainly used to be true.
Oh and also this lol I tried to group up with lower skill players when I could to try to balance it out but then I just started losing pretty bad. 

New to Overwatch
So im 2 days into overwatch and i like it so far. I plan on playing comp when i can, but probably will not take it too seriously.

From what I've read, its best to "main" one or two characters, and be comfortable and competent with another one or two in order to flex pick as needed.

What are some of the easier characters to pickup and learn the game with?  I played Roadhog a bit yesterday and i kinda like him. I also played Pharah a bit and like the idea behind it, but my execution is lacking.

Thanks for the help.i suggest playing someone you actually enjoy playing, whoever you gravitate to. Dont look for easy, look for fun - sometimes a harder hero to learn ends up being the most fun.

This video is outdated now but it goes over a lot of what everyone's ideal role is on a team and who to choose (minus Sombra, Orisa and Doomie) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QR60jKEEGkI&t=837s

Once you get used to understanding everyone's role, see who you like best. If you feel forced to play a hero or just get bored of picking the same one over and over, you're not going to play your best.
Honestly, since it is your first season I would try out a bunch of different heroes and not worry too much about rank. Your goal for competitive play should just be to improve at the game, because there is a lot to learn and it might not all be immediately obvious for a while. 

Don't worry about your rank for the first season or two either. Just play a bunch of different heroes, consider flexing or filling, and then down the line you can choose to specialize if you want to. I went about 3 seasons where I flexed a lot before I ended up specializing in a main tank role which has enabled me to climb. 
As far as easy characters go: reaper, soldier, Winston,  and mercy are all fairly easy. They all require less skill to have high impact, but become more and more powerful as your skill increases. 

That said I would recommend trying everyone out and pick one or two that click. For instance, zarya and zenyatta are generally considered more difficult to learn, but they clicked for me, whereas the relatively easy s76 didn't work for me at all. 
Lucio is a solid pick because he's a support but also an initiator and counter attacker. I've started playing him more this last month and only just realized how much I like his kit. He is highly mobile (wall riding and speed boosting himself and his team away from threats when needed). He provides heals, though I'd suggest an offhealer, especially Zenyatta. He has potential to boop enemies off points that are highly contested, which can win games if the enemy team is tight together and if the overtime timer only needs like .5 seconds to be captured. 


His ultimate is very strong, as it buffs your team shields and can help your team win a fight, even as the other team uses ultimates. Keep in mind, the shields he provides can be taken away in full by a Sombra ult. I like Lucio's ult especially since it has upped by general awareness of the game. It can be used as a defensive move, but also as a means of imitation - you go in with your whole team diving, pop the ult and provide massive pressure to the enemy. It has also helped my reaction times too, since using it to counter enemy ults is a split second reaction that has you calculating the circumstances very quickly in your head. 
Play mystery heroes in the arcade. It forces you to play random heroes, switching at every respawn. It's fun, and you may end up liking a hero you never thought you would. 
Play whoever you enjoy, and play each role (DPS, tank, support) for a good amount of time before playing comp. It's really important to experience first hand the perspective of the other roles if you want to maximize your potential in yours 
Try out every character. Not only does it let you find who you want to main, but also lets you know what other characters are able to do.
Go with what feels best for you, if your only good at one character you can make it work just only play with other people or be confident in that character, play all 25 heroes for at least a game, even though you unlock comp at level 25 don't start until your either confident or level 100
Edit: try your best! And be positive 
first if it's your first time in comp - don't (if you're lvl 25), first learn strengths and weaknesses of every hero than have a few mains (like 4 or more) but if you can't decide pick easier heroes (soldier, lucio, rein etc.) and learn every class (that should be really simple why i put this here)
I'd say Soldier, Mercy and Winston. They 're easy to learn and can help you to fill any crazy comp if you solo q
Play mystery heroes to get a feel for them all, and like others have said play the one that's the most fun! Keep in mind that they all have different play styles (which might take a bit to figure out but this sub is a great resource for guides and videos)
I like to go nuts with Junkrat. You can boost out of harm's way with his mine, or launch it at someone, and insta-kill.

But, I'd say the easiest hero is Mercy, but they're completely changing her abilities, so...
I play pharah a lot and have over 50 hours on her.  She is a great solo carry hero if you know how to use your fuel, and when to engage and disengage. I would also recommend learning tracer and soldier as they also have massive carry potential.
Should I also learn a tank/healer/something other than my main because of the possibility of not being able to play my main and having to fill the comp?
Winston is imo the easiest character. Mei, Torb and junkrat are also easy. Soldier 76 is great to play if you've played a lot of first person shooters before. You'll already be decent with him likely. 
I'd also like to add mystery heroes is a great game mode to start out. It forces you to learn how all of the characters work which is massively beneficial. Even if you don't plan on playing certain characters in comp, it's very important that you have played them so you know what they can do and how they work. 
This 100% OP
How does soldier become more powerful as skill increases? He seems fairly linear in my new experience.
I'd argue Winston is a hard character to use. Sure you don't need to aim but you have to play smart or you're toast. Maybe hard is the wrong word. Still, need practice to use him effectively.
I have played many FPS over the years, so your assessment of S:76 is correct. However, my dislike of him is that it feels too...CoDish.

It's the best thing in this game, imo. Even for people with experience, you can try to make it work with the hero you're given. Fun challenge
As you get better and learn positioning, TARGET Priority ult management, ult combining, shot calling, gamesense, sharing your healing, etc. Things get harder, the higher rank you go, the more DPS is required to finish off kills and follow through with more tactical plays, not blowing ults and soldier can make/break teams, just like a really good widow. Watch IDDQD and his soldier play when you get a chance. watch how he always runs between everything he does, watch how he peaks every corner, look at his amazying tracking and ult management. THIS is what a great soldier looks like and it to know how to play like this on every map takes many many hours on this game. is soldier EASY to play and learn, YES, is he also easy to F up and leave yourself open to die all the time and suck at shooting and not yielding any kills, for a noob or somebody who keeps thinking they can play FPS hitscan, but really they cant aim at all, YES. Either way, Soldier is a great hero and is greatly played at a Grandmaster level.  Easy to learn, hard to master (but it's not his abilities that are hard to master, it's his game play with your team and that map and target priority + aim) as a soldier player your team will ALWAYS have expectations of you, such as a pharah, doomfist, bastion, Mercy, they're are all your 1st priority when you see them, if you're team gets killed often by those Heroes, YOU will be to blame, every Hero has roles to fill, learn what you're actually good at, and play it well.
As you hit headshots and rockets more consistently. 
He's all about mechanical skill. As your aim gets better you'll be able to pump out more damage in a shorter amount of time and hit from further back keeping yourself safe
The ability to do burst damage is huge in this game because healing is everywhere, and landing rockets can do 120 damage. So you get them down a little, then you rocket them. Additionally his ult does a lot of damage if it's not being blocked. His sprint also gets him out of a lot of bad situations. In overwatch there are a lot of situations where your opponents have abilities that can kill you quickly, so soldier is able to stand in the fight, predict what will happen, and then sprint away in time to dodge it, so he's kinda weak and straight forward, but that winds up being really powerful when fighting people who have cool downs.
Yes, aiming isn't the problem. Winston is only useful when the rest of the team is fighting alongside you. 
Fun fact, Soldier 76 was designed as an inside joke to CoD
Yea okay. Give Winston a try. No aim needed. 
If you're already pretty decent at FPS (so movement and aim) then really pick whoever clicks with you. Zen and Ana for example need decent aim to be effective, but if you're confident enough you don't need to learn Mercy.

While Soldier does have a fairly basic kit, he still has a very high skill ceiling and can be a ton of fun to play. Also try out McCree for a similar point+click hero (McCree is a bit harder to stay alive with though)

Using Sprays Tactically in Overwatch
I was watching the Overwatch Contenders and I've been noticing teams use their sprays on surfaces... almost like a code.

(I mean apart from BM-ing)

My guess is they're used to indicate a teammate taking a position, or how far it's safe to extend.

I haven't found anything in Google, yet.

Can anyone share what they know about using sprays tactically?

Symmetry has a teleport spray... use that and the enemy won’t know why they can’t shoot down your tele
Probably looking into it a bit much, sprays are just spammed to keep your hands busy when not actively doing something. It would be much easier and less confusing to judge for yourself where you should extend to, or just communicate with voice/text chat.
Never heard of sprays as signals, but Junkrat can use a spray on an uneven surface (stairs) or partially under a bush to look like a trap. The split second confusion it instills has gotten me killed a couple times in high masters.
I think it's just to keep their fingers busy, warmed up. Just like you see them melee a lot when there's nothing going on. Some people do that with sprays instead and other people do both. 
You can spray windows of the shed on the Volskaya first point to obscure vision of the attackers. You also can use Junkrat trap spray to confuse enemies. 
Don't know if serious but I laughed real hard.
That's some Loony Tunes shit right there
However, I can see where the OP is coming from.

Whenever I play S76, I use his full body spray and spray it on the wall slight further away from my location before the match. 

My thinking behind this is to throw off the enemy even for that split second to focus on the spray, whilst I kill them.

No idea if it ever worked though ;D 
I know what you're getting at. But respectfully, I can tell these sprays weren't inspired by muscle memory.

I feel like I've seen enough higher level matches to tell that these spray placements were deliberate, and communicative.

You're probably right in noting that it'd be easier to use voice comms, although my guess is that using sprays tactically in this way helps clear up comms a bit for more important callouts. Idk just a guess.
Thats a neat idea! Be funny to use a dpray of sombras translocator and have an enemy just standing at it for a minute waiting for you to teleport
When I'm on defense, I'll go on the other side of a flank route/choke, spray my spray outside the door, then come back. I like to think it's intimidating. 
If you could clip a couple examples that'd be sweet!
I'm totally gonna try doing this now.
Can do. I'll find some later tonight.

Don't worry about your rank!
So many people go through ladder anxiety, and worry about their exact sr or current elo, but really, don't worry about it! For one. Many are in the same boat as you and for two. This is the main thing for this post 
THE MORE YOU PLAY THE MORE YOU GAIN
Quick Play is not your answer to improvement, it's the thing that leads to failure. Play comp even through the tortuous loss streaks and the toxicity, and stay positive, don't look at your rank at the end of games, and you'll reach a higher elo in no time!
Just remember to always try, to always believe in yourself and your team. The more hours invested in to a season, the better your chance at improvement, and one more thing! Don't be jealous of friends with higher rank than you!I started in high silver, climbed to gold, and then fell to 1400 SR all in the last season. Doesn't feel like i'll ever start climbing again :(
This is a major problem in dota 2 as well. To the point where people dont want to actually improve theyre just concerned with "raising my mmr". Mmr is just a number, its only there so you can be in matches against people of similar skill (and also for the people that play the game 24/7 to be on the leaderboard). If you really are better than your mmr then eventually it'll increase over time by you having a higher impact on games. But people let this number give them so much anxiety they cant even focus on improving or enjoy the game because since theyre silver they feel like theyre complete shit and unworthy or something. Diamond rank is the top 20% of players, with overwatch having tens of millions of players even if youre silver youre still better than a lot of other players. Best way to improve is keep playing comp (NOT QP) because simply playing more you'll learn more about hero counters/comps/general game sense etc. When not playing comp go into a custom map and practice your aim, maybe adjust settings and see if different sens or even hotkey set up could help you. Also watch pro replays and look for the little things they do. They didn't become pros just by picking up the game and playing, its hard work and dedication if you really want to be that good at the game. 
I will still worry about my rank because the higher you get, the closer you get from good OW games (good com, hard opponents) with a tendency to play with older people who give a shit about the game or are mechanical gods.

Either way, playing harder opponents is the way to improve rather than playing against your typical 12 year old Hanzo main against who you will learn nothing from because his kills are random.

Kids are more common in low ranks and there's not much to learn from them. I see ranks up to diamond like a wall of stupidity you have to get past (sorry if I hurt your feelings, but a flanking Hog or someone out of position called out in voice chat who goes unpunished is very annoying).

I remember the flanking Hog out of nowhere not being called out.

I remember the Rein who charge into five people than blame Symmetra.

I remember the Mercys players who say "I'm sure if we were more positive we would have defended well" after a horrible beatdown with a fine comp, or "it's because he is tilting we lost this game" while dying first in the first teamfight then misusing voice to tell people to play better instead of shutting his mouth and concentrate on his play.

I still remember Junkrat tier (< plat) and my free Zarya wins.

I remember zero support insta lock.

I remember people not appropriately switching when they get utterly countered for the whole match (Junkrat vs Pharah/Zarya).

I remember people leaving or lagging because of poor decisions in their computer set-up or planning.


Nah, I still worry about getting higher quality matches with higher ranked people
Main Pharah and you'll just win at that elo.
Just stick with it, try a new hero, find a team to play with, you can do this! 
Thank you!! Finding a good squad that communicates always helps! Hard to group back up with people after the first time. 

My mains are D. Va and Winston and I sometimes flex Lucio. Any hero suggestions?
Reaper is a very strong hero that can be learned easily, but takes a long time to master, he's great at your skill level as well.

What (if any) useful insight can be gleaned from Mystery Hero stats?
Obviously it all depends on a big enough sample of play time and that in itself may limit the reliability of any useful insights from the data however that aside...

I'm thinking particularly about identifying heroes you are naturally inclined to do well with.
I think that the Mystery Hero stats can be used to determine how long a hero is in rotation in terms of who you will picked as. I know there's a pattern to the hero selection, and this could be used to determine it.
Since the other team probably doesn't have any sort of comp to it, your stats are gained through means that don't typically arise in competitive or qp. It's easy to get gold damage and Elian's as hog if nobody else on your team does high dps, and nobody on their team counters you etc
Wouldn't that even out over time however?
It still wouldn't be an accurate reflection of stats that you would get in other modes, both teams being random and chaotic doesn't make the game less random or chaotic just because it's "even". Stats like accuracy and other mechanical based skills might be relevant, if you're hitting all your arrows as hanzo it doesn't matter what mode you are in but it could potentially be much easier/harder to secure kills with him based on both teams random and chaotic comps.
Seems reasonable, although I suppose even accuracy may not be useful if a random composition means more/less larger/smaller targets than in competitive modes.

Any groups/tips?
I've been a diamond before. For some reason, I can't seem to reach it again. I usually play Reinhardt, though I can branch out to different characters (or at least I think I can) and float to whatever the team needs. I'm obviously not perfect at everything, but I think I'm good enough to play most of it halfway decent. 

For the first few seasons I steadily climbed to Diamond, and regularly play with people that are at Diamond/Master level. Yet, after my recent placements (and not doing the last season save for placement matches), I'm stuck in the low-end of gold and can't seem to climb out. I stay calm, play what I can that might help the team and offer advice to people. I'd been told to try and focus on playing DPS in gold to help carry, but unfortunately most people tend to pick DPS or refuse to swap, so I feel it's better to go to something that will help. But at the same time, I can visibly see the issues. Healers aren't being focused, we have tracer/genji against winston/roadhog, etc. 

Is it something I should gradually expect to come out of or am I stuck here? And would anyone be willing to group up/offer me some pointers? Is there a Discord for something like this?

Thanks in advance!Only fill if u really have to and off u dot need to fill play what your best at 

Are you now actually getting big SR gains during placements?
With the changes that you don't get placed lower after placements I actually climbed a whole lotin my placement matches.

I only have my stats so I wanna know how others did in the placements.

I went 8-2 and climbed from 3229 SR Season 5 final to 3466 after placements. That's +237 SR. If my gains and losses were always the same, that leaves me with +39.5 SR per each win I got. That is nearly double the SR I gain during a season.

Have you guys had a similar experience?I also went 8-2, s5 high at 36xx decayed to 3k, placed at 3871 s6
I think it's definitely a chance to re-calibrate yourself. I went 3 - 7 , and I placed about where I was before. That's likely because I played REALLY well. I had either gold elims or gold healing in 8 out of 10 games, and sometimes I had a 10:1 K/D ratio. So the game picked up on it and give me something slightly lower than my previous season.

hilariously my first game AFTER placements had some super tilted people who wanted to brag about having gold elims all game even though it was 1. When I got 3 kills at the end, and stole gold from them, they still wanted to blame me. Such is Overwatch lol. 
I went 6-4, ended last season at 2201 (Season high), got placed at 2289.
I went 6/3/1 performing above average in all games except 2, but drained 47 SR to place at 1590.

Was mildly frustrating.
i went 4-6 and got 3009 when i finished last season at 3190 FeelsBadMan
ended last season ~2300 and placed 2556 after 6-3! about 150 sr gain but then again I did get dced three times last season
Seems like as long as you go even in your placements (5-5), you will rank almost exactly the same as what you ended last season at.  Placements finally feel good when you see that number at the end!
My W:L ratio wasn't so good during placements but I still got an SR boost. Honestly it's great change because now placements are actually meaningful
ok guys, the most strange thing happend to me. i was 28xx last season career high. now i played my placements. 3/1/6 an placed at 3010.
I went 6-4 and placed 3951 I ended last season at like 34xx? at the end of last season though I played sombra from 3000 to 3400 with an 80% win rate so maybe my mmr was high?
I've been so annoyed with the placement process that I just played random Healers and anchor Tanks the whole time (avoiding the ones I have a lot of time on). I was trying to win, but not sweating the process at all.

I went 4-6 (surprising in itself) and then gained +7 SR.

tl;dr I don't know anything about this game.
I ended last season 3011 and I started this season at 3011 I went 4-5-1 in my placements
I have no idea how the system works. I went 7-2-1 and went up 68. If they worked like normal games, I probably would have went up about 50 more. I wonder if there's just a higher variation of what players it will throw at you, and maybe I got a bunch of lesser opponents.
The guy I was duo-queueing with was getting +40 for wins, -15 for losses, and he was already done with his placements. 
I ended last season at 3550 and dropped after going 4-5-1 to 3360 
I went 7-3 and placed 2780. Have usually finished my seasons around 2500
you don't get a penalty of about 200sr each season anymore
I won 8 and drew twice in my placements. Ended s5 3126 and placed mid 3300s. I'm now at 3636, so something is going right.
Won only 4, got placed at pretty much what I ended, minus like 15 SR. So it's like I only lost one game in compt with my previous SR
Not huge but I got a decent gain. I ended season 5 at 3000 due to decay, mmr was probably around 3050 with a 3100 season high.

Season 6 placements I went 8-2 and placed at 3145, so I was pretty happy with that.
I've only done placements on my smurf. It ended season 5 at 2100. Finished placements 7-2-1 And placed 2558. I did well on 9 of the 10 matches.
ended 4289 went 7-3 in placements and got 4341
I went 7-2-1, lost 89 SR from where I was at the end of Season 5. Played mostly zen, but also mercy, winston, dva and rein. I thought I did well, but apparently not.
I went 8-2, about 7 of those wins I was absolutely mucking. I placed 2600, my career high is only 2730 and I finished S5 in gold... it felt good! 
Not huge but I was shocked

I won 7, lost 2, drew one. My end of season rank s5 was 3144, season high (of all time :D) was 3240. I got placed 3274 this season. 
I ended last season wayy below my season high (3030) and fair bit below where I think I should actually be (~2700). Went 5-3-2 in my placements flexing between Tracer, Reaper, Zarya and D.Va, 2-4 golds every match and carrying hard in the ones I won. Netted a solid 23 sr after placements. 2478->2501. Life is pain.
Okay, this makes me feel better. I got my season high of 3.4K and decayed to 3K. Glad to see I probably won't place at 3K.
But if this were like previous seasons you would have placed around 2800-2900 so I would call that a win
 I went 4-6 and went 1919 - 1946. Though last season was in the last week and my first ever competitive play.
Ya it feels great knowing you aren't going to drop 200SR no matter what you do. Actually managed to gain 150.
i'm happy.
Similar happened to me in season 4. (3050 season high in S3)

Went 3-7 in S4 placements and placed at ~3150. I played really well in all the placements matches, so i felt it was deserved
Did you perform really well during placements? Might explain it.
If you're not aware they changed placements this season so that you don't drop a bunch of SR regardless of your performance. There's actually a point now.
As someone who ended at 2508, I would like to replicate this 
That doesn't really add up. Were you performing decently during the won games or were you getting carried?
Everyone thinks they should be placed higher than what they really should be...
Decay doesn't seem to match your MMR, so you'll probably place around what you had before you let decay hit.

I ended season 5 at 3000 due to decay, mmr was probably around 3050 with a 3100 season high.

Season 6 placements I went 8-2 and placed at 3145, so I was pretty happy with that.
Positive poster is positive!
Right, I remember reading that, but I didn't expect to win 4 games playing random Tanks and Healers that I don't have really any serious time on... and gain SR after a losing record in placements. 🤔🤔🤔
Yeah, I played mostly zarya and had 4 gold in 3 games and about 60 average energy. Then I played pharah for another handful of games and didn't play terribly. And I would say I got carried in only one game where I was forced to play mercy but the rest of them I held my own pretty well. 
I mean, his season high is 300 SR above where he thinks he belongs. Might be correct
Season high is less accurate than your current SR though. He should have placed higher up if he was truly good enough.

Overwatch and PS4; Controller Advice?
Hello all, I've previously asked this question in a subreddit more related (the PS4 subreddit) and my question basically went unanswered.

I've been playing overwatch for almost a year now, entirely on PS4. My question is, do any of you know either:

1. A smaller (literally size) brand of controller compatible with the PS4 or

2. Advice on how to deal with being an adult with abnormally small hands when trying to aim in this damn game

I've gotten by just playing tanks like D.va and healers like Mercy. It's been somewhat fine, they don't necessarily rely on fine motor controls. But I am getting rather frustrated at the fact that I could be playing a better DPS like Tracer if I had a controller that was smaller. Sure, I could potentially just suck as DPS, but I have always had a problem with FPS games because of controller size. Aka. My fingers have a hard time using the sticks because they don't reach like a normal adult's do.

Any advice or help would be greatly appreciated.Idk how small your hands are or anything, but you have a couple options:

Remap buttons.  You can do this to help make things easier.  I know people do this, but I am a fan of defaults with addons myself.

[Play claw](https://www.google.com/search?q=ps4+claw+grip&tbm=isch&imgil=GVGZfuAQxr6ngM%253A%253BNJf_zvx6pZ2TvM%253Bhttps%25253A%25252F%25252Fwww.youtube.com%25252Fwatch%25253Fv%2525253DbRoT5-6gOUw&source=iu&pf=m&fir=GVGZfuAQxr6ngM%253A%252CNJf_zvx6pZ2TvM%252C_&usg=__-akYw6NunKuuo5ndleH0idsVsbk%3D&biw=1536&bih=710&ved=0ahUKEwjzxPvb8oXWAhUrjFQKHUctAtUQyjcIMw&ei=o1KqWbPnPKuY0gLH2oioDQ#imgrc=_).  I have some friends that are teenagers with smaller hands and they play claw.  I think I used to play claw back in the day out of necessity.  

Paddle adapter.  You can find something to add extra buttons to the back.  I use the FPS Dominator by Collective Minds.  This lets me map jump and crouch to the back so I don't have to let off either stick unless I want to ult or swap weapons.

Rest the controller on your lap when you play so your hands don't have to worry so much about holding it.  You can also sort of turn your hands more to the front if you have to.

I don't really have small hands, but these are my suggestions.

Source: Been a console gamer for 25 years.  Ps4 controller is better than some others I have had to deal with in the past (N64 especially).

Your only other option if you have exhausted these would probably be to look into an expensive custom controller (i don't have a good recommendation; not Scuf as the quality isn't up to par).  That or play M+K.  There are plenty of M+K users now on ps4 in upper SR and its not unbeatable.  Some have really good aim, but you can still win by outplaying them.  I can't use M+K to save my life hence why I stick to console.
Mouse and keyboard?
....if only that were technically easy and ethically moral.
I mean its not by choice?

Are my teammates holding me back or do I just suck at Overwatch?
Here's my situation: I am currently sitting at 2006sr on xbox. Each season I play I've been seeing gains of 100-200sr from my starting point to the end of the season. I can play most heroes decently and a couple pretty well. I end up waiting until my team has finished picking to choose who I play because most of the other players I play with don't understand composition very well. There is very little to no communication between me and my teammates and I often find players who don't play the objective. Now, I know the first thing I should do is focusing on what I could do to become better. But I'm curious as to seeing if I've reached my cap or if I can still climb higher. All advice and help would be much appreciated!It's you, not them. Stop focusing on the team composition - at your rank, it's almost completely irrelevant. Get good at something (healing, killing, tanking) and only do that. Get REALLY good and I'll give you a position on my spaceship.

Seriously, though, your rank reflects your skill, not your teammates' skill.
Use the find a group feature,(Xbox) you can meet some cool peeps this way!
Probably a bit of both.

> There is very little to no communication between me and my teammates

Try to communicate as much as you can, even if other players aren't talking. At least your team will have a shot caller.

You are also playing what we call fill, filling in whatever the comp requires once everyone has picked. This is generally seen as a more difficult way to climb as you will often not end up in a good position to carry, and end up playing heroes you might not be the best with yourself.
Make a six man and find out.
Clearly this, if you belonged in platinum you would make your way out in no time. You don't climb because you don't improve enough. It doesn't me you are not good though, see the difference?
If you want to go higher you need to become really better. To do so : review your own games, analyze your errors and break the bad habits. I believe in you.
And never ever blame your teammates. 
Oof
This guy ain't lying I use it every time and it really improves over solo queuing. You get people that actually want to try and win.
I'm fairy new to this sub and this might seem like a dumb question but, where can I find this?
I agree, communicate even though no one else does.  I've been in matches where I would tell teammates I'm hearing steps above or behind us and I would see one or two shift where I directed them.
I'm new as well:. I'm not infront of xbox, press middle button go to over watch, press start go to game hub, scroll to looking for group's, sort by now.   Really a great feature finally added.

Fat man resists FatMan
Considering Roadhog's "Take a Breather" cuts damage 50%, Roadhog can now survive a point blank dva ult and end up around 300 health. It does 1000 damage, cut to 500, so if you 'take' as the ult starts, you should be able to reliably 'breath' 200 hp.
Edit: This has already been posted. Sorry.Some people didn't see the original post. Thank you for your time :3
I think that is ok, now every tank can somehow survive her ult. Zarya bubble, rein shield, Dva gets out of mech/flies away/ Roadhog heals. Still forces their CD's, Winston Bubble or leap.
100% confirmed, I definitely fat fingered Fat Man's Fat Heal as FatMan went off, definitely survived it with health to spare.

That said, I don't think it's as ridiculous as, say, the Bastion armor and repair buff that was originally on PTR. 
I like this! Think of the out play ability now if hog wants to hook the dva ult to save his team. 
Does Dva's ult do more damage if you are closer to it? Is that 1000 flat?
Does this block with LoS like shields or barriers do?

Actually do barriers even block D Va ult? Can't say I've ever done this on purpose 
It's a good title though
Hey, you forgot to mention orisa
There are flat radiuses that make like 3 circles, close, a little bit away and safe. Close is the flat 1000. At least from what I have seen not sure if we have data on this :) 
No it doesn't block the ult from teammates behind you. And yes barriers do block the damage from the ult
Try doming one yourself next time :).

(Yes, barriers can block it)
No, I mean do barriers block D Va ult behind them 

I know that they block Rein but I don't think I've ever been in a situation where I used Zarya like that 
Yes the do. If you're standing between a teammate and the dva ult and bubble your teammate will survive. Same thing applies to Mei when she's in her ice block, a teammate can stand behind her and survive. 
Yes, I believe they do
Correct, but you can't meatshield it using only your own body. So barriers yes, but to the original comment, as GermanPretzel said, no Hog does not while gassing up (nor does any non-barriered Tank, or any Hero in general).

What can a Lucio do to help Doomfist?
I put down the game for a while and since I did Doomfist and Orisa were added. So I don't have a lot of play time in with them.

Orisa is for the most part pretty easy to help, but I am trying to figure out how to aid my Doomfist.

I am not absolutely sure what the best way to position him for attack is. He's not quite like a flanker and obviously needs to be set up differently. His positioning is important, but how is he supposed to be played? What can I do (beyond just a basic speed boost) to position him more efficiently and give him an advantage?

Can any of the Doomfist players give me a hand please?Apart from generic healing, I dont think Lucio can do more to help Doomfist. Doomfist basically operates to his own tempo and positioning, usually away from the main group. Most of his kit already has high mobility and doesnt really benefit from speed boost anyway. As Lucio youre better off staying with the main group and have the Doomfist come to you for heals if your main healer is unable to do so.
Tell him to switch off
best way to help him is indirectly, speedboosting the rest of the team in position to exploit the work doomfist does to the enemy team. doom's mobility + shields mean there isn't a whole lot you can do as a duo, if you try too hard to help him you'll just end up putting yourself in dangerous positions

When should I be playing Junkrat in Season 6?
Now that he's had a major buff, it feels that he would fit much better into the meta. I had been playing him before that, but wouldn't have considered playing him in comp. Now my question is, when is it a bad idea to play as him? Which maps limit his potential, and should I be switching off of him if I'm being focused by a Winston or Pharah, for example? Also, if I decide to play him in comp, should I be comfortable with a second DPS hero, should i have to switch? I played a lot of Lucio and Winston in Season 5, but I think it would be hard to switch to either of those in a solo queue, considering that it would mean either a tank or support would have to switch to DPS. Anytime if you can build ult fast and know how to use it well to consistently get picks. Since tire can basically fly and wall climb, you can easily flank with it and get picks. His ult also builds fast. If you can land nades and can kill people with your ult junkrat is actually a good pick anywhere
As an one trick junkrat I would that it's never a bad time to play him. Yet, if you're not comfortable with him, don't play aganist super mobile comps. 

If you get focused by winston then go highground and knock him off with a mine or just bait him into a trap. If you get focused by pharah, 3 options arise: jump with one mine, hit her with a nade and then mine her, or riptire into her, or distract the bitch until a teammate kills her. 

He is exceptionally good on payload maps because of the chokepoints and flanking potential, but also decent on koth maps. 2CP is questionable, especially volskaya. Due to the recent buff, junkrat's mobility and survivability have greatly increased so make sure you use your mines and traps efficiently. As a small tip, always try to run the tire up a wall and then jump on whoever you want to kill. They are less likely to see it or just unable to do much because of its speed.

If you want a second dps to switch with then go for mccree if your aim is decent.
All day every day
wtf you have problem with winston?
Junk is good on anubis pt a or dorado pt a defense.  Hes also good against shields (Orisa, rein) but only if your team can capitalize on that shield going down (soldier,hog).
Not all of the time, but when they know what they're doing it's tricky to hit them.
you have 2 mines now. use it close range and create a distance, furry cant zap you if you jump away. and he is so big and ez to hit in middle range. so go for it.
Junkrat is an amazing counter to Winston not for his ability to kill him, but for his ability to peel him. If Winston jumps you or a teammate, throw a mine in front of him and detonate. His limited range will cease his damage output.

Why you must add aim tracking routine to your training
Hey guys!
Yesterday my aim tracking routine was the top post of /r/overwatchuniversity with 300 upvotes , so first of all I would like to thank you all for commenting and voting! 
if you havent watched my latest post and would like to see my method to train the tracking:
https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/6x4wld/best_way_to_train_aim_tracking_interval_aim/

I recieved plenty of comments asking me why I think that you should practice aim tracking against bots and not in deathmatch or against real humans. 

I thought that this topic should be talked about more and should have its own post and video.

the simple answer is that you should do both.
as I see it, the aim in overwatch is mostly consistent of two things : aim tracking, and a reflex towards the end.

if your aim tracking is good you will have to relay less on your reflexes.

the video that I made shows everything more clear and explains everything really well and I suggest that you watch it.
link : https://youtu.be/w9w4lr04gRM


so the simple answer is : you should train your aim tracking against bots. but also train in deathmatch against real humans in order to learn how you use your aim tracking abilites in order to get it inside your overall aim.
I suggest playing mccree in the ffa deathmatch. but do what ever that you like.

I also thought it might be cool to explain it with a slow motion and right now Im also uploading a new video of only 1 minute that shows my aim in deathmatch and me explaining which part is the tracking and which is the reflex.

link will be updated here. 

update :
https://youtu.be/JvD8Gut1rII
Totally agree. 

Practice doesn't make perfect. Practice makes permanent. Only perfect practice makes perfect. 

If you're only practice is with completely unknown values, you can easily practice really bad aim and habits. Which you then have to un-train later. 

Overwatch is my first FPS on pc. If I don't warm up for a minute or two in the training range I often end up missing stuff all night. Not always, but I see a difference if I just jump straight in. 

The difference is practicing with known values to adjust your skills to a known value. If the bot is always in the same spot, and you always miss to the lower left, you know you need to adjust your aim up and to the right. If you miss in an actual game or even against Anna bots, who knows.  

After getting your reactions to a reliable baseline THEN you can make intelligent adjustments against real players. You need both. 

I'm sure there are people that "never had to do this," but chances are they just took the longer route of doing all of it against players. Congratulations, you're among the lucky few that happened to accidentally practice it correctly. Play time is no guarantee of good aim. Right next to this post was another "I've been playing for x number of years and still miss. What do?" post. 

Not all of us have 14 hrs a day 3 months out of the year, and 20 hours a week the rest of the time to brute force our way to good aim. For those of us with spouses, kids, jobs, etc we need to approach this intelligently, with practice routines etc. There's no shame in that. And there's no superiority for either approach. Just what works for the individual. 

A lot of people say not to use outside applications to help train your aim but using the same sens in CSGO and Aim Hero has certainly helped a lot. 
disagree, ive not once done actual aim training during all of my 5 seasons so far and achieved gm everytime. they only thing you need/should fix is your dpi settings. also if you play tanks or support(some of them) aim isnt even that relevant to you.
You got GM "in spite of" not practicing tracking. It doesn't mean it wouldn't have helped you get it even easier.
Sorry, but that's kinda like saying "I've run a marathon without practice, so you don't have to do 5Ks/10Ks to get yourself there, it's all about proper breathing."

Some people are naturally better at aiming or have experience from previous games, that doesn't account for everyone though. I do agree that aim isn't everything, in my book people even overemphasize aim while disregarding gamesense and positioning.
I have got a friend who got to top500 after 3 weeks of playing, and now is playing in a top team and getting paid monthly..
some people get better easier than anothers.. doesnt prove that training is not got
How many thousands of hours worth of FPS experience did you have before you started playing OW? I think you'll find the majority of the community is playing catch-up, and training makes that process a little faster.
Speak the truth and get downvoted, seems to be a recurring theme in this subreddit.
no im saying that you are better off training in different areas because aim will come as you play
Don't bother yourself. Sakata here is only lurking the reddits to show you how he got to GM multiple times. He also has a habit of embarrassing himself with comments like these.
im saying you should focus on improving other things, aiming is something that will come with time. going into the practice range and training your aim for hours wont really help imo
training yes but not aim training, that doesent really help imo. also whats his name?
zero
Is it the truth though? Or is it someone saying something really dumb and unhelpful for the majority of the community? 

The whole point of aim training is to build that reflexive muscle memory if you don't already have it through thousands of hours of CS:GO or TF2 play, which the vast majority of the Overwatch population have not. Great, Sakata brought years of experience to his Overwatch gameplay and doesn't need to practice because the muscle memory is already there. The vast majority of the population is thousands of hours behind in that regard.
why do you always have to be toxic?
the friend is awkward from zengaming..
him and kafe used to be my cs 1.6 teamates and are irl friends with me to this day.
they also played in the worldcup

awkward started at season 3 last week and got master after one week.
in season 4 he already got top500
Zero FPS experience and you've been GM for all of your seasons. Right. That sounds like total horseshit, but I'll give you the benefit of the doubt and say that's like getting in the drivers seat of a car for the first time and placing podium in a rally championship. Not impossible, but far enough of an outlier in the realm of probability as to be a total anomaly. Nothing in your experience is likely to help anybody improve their play because you've never been in the same position as them.
I don't know about him, but I don't have any previous FPS experience, and I don't do any aim training. I think aim is just a small part of Overwatch, and it's something that you can learn just by playing. 
Just because I am calling you out on your BS doesn't make me toxic.
i think ive seen awkward somewhere, seems like he made a good transition from cs then
i just played a lot of overwatch, before overwatch i played smash bros and hearthstone. its not horseshit, people just give aiming too much credit.
exactly, nor do you even need it for some heroes
nah you just salty
yeah.. hes very talented..
kafe was also very high in the ladder.. he was 1st in the world
for sure
Can we see your over buff?
i know, ive played a couple times against/with him
Gintoki#2125 and SnakeEater#21951, no placements done yet on snakeeater



New to the game and need to know what to work on to improve
So I just started the game and am quite competitive with most games I play(diamond 2 league, top 500 gwent, etc...) which interests me in ranked overwatch. I did my placements and got placed into gold but now I am interested in what I should be doing to improve such that I could push for masters this season. So far I have played Winston, Dva and McCree as they seem to have the most impact at low ranks. While I start my climb I want to know what I should focus on learning?Aim is literally the most important thing at lower Elo's, with positioning being a close second. To improve aim practice your ass off, it's a skill that comes with time. What you can do to fix positioning mistakes is analyze every single death. Never blame your team, instead think about what you could have done different. If you can't figure out what you're doing wrong, get someone to review your games and point out your mistakes. There's also a lot of content on this Reddit as well as YouTube that are helpful for improving your gameplay. 
Focus on working with your team, make sure that the entire team engages at the same time. Be aware of many players of each team is present, and play accordingly. 3v6 you should probably just run away and regroup, 6v3 you have probably already won the fight and should consider saving ultimates and trying to stagger enemy spawns. After a won fight you can play aggressively, and kill off people who run out of spawn before their team is ready. People at low ranks think they're safe as long as they don't go through the choke, you can use this to stall them even more.

Be aware of where the spawning points are relative to the objective. If a payload was just pushed to a checkpoint, there is not much sense in using ultimates as the attacking team is bound to win regardless due to huge spawn advantage. On 2CP maps the attacking team tends to have a small spawn advantage, so trading kills is generally good for the attacking team, as they will have a much easier time getting through the choke when they respawn. For the second point on 2CP the attacking team needs to win a fight decisively, and have enough firepower left to hold it against the stalling defenders. Trying to slowly wear down the defense is pointless because of fast respawns. 

Most importantly, don't blindly listen to all advice you get. There are a lot of people who try to be helpful, but don't know what it takes to be a good player. From what I've seen, most GM+ players tend to give good advice, but get downvoted because they disagree with the consensus of lower level players. 

Watch pros play and reputable YouTube channels like iostux coaching is a good one. Aim is very important along side game sense. It is possible to make a huge climb in a few months,  a friend of mine went from mid silver to low platinum. On the SR distribution chart that's like bottom 15% to top 48%. The only reason I say this next bit is because I don't want you to be disappointed in your own future progress - don't feel bad if you can't get near masters. Gold to masters is like top 60% to top 10%. It is a very ambitious goal which is a great thing to have but don't let the skill tier become the be all and end all. Play what you think is fun,  and get good at that. After a while, post a VOD and people like myself will be happy to give feedback on what you can improve. (Source:  FPS veteran with 2500 hours in tf2,  4 seasons in diamond and low GM season 5) 

Does your previous season's sr directly affect the sr of your next season?
I.E. if you were 2000 sr s5 and played very well (let's say for arguments sake at the level of 3000 sr) would you be ranked closer to your previous season's rank Yes, it's mostly based on your end of season rank from last season. You could go up or down about 200 sr if you do well or poorly. It's very unlikely the game will increase you by 1000 sr, even a good 10 game streak isn't enough to justify that kind of calibration. The system needs more evidence that you are that high.
Honestly, I'm not sure how it works.  Some people have reported losing a majority of their games, but gaining SR.

I won 6/3/1 playing at what I felt was above my average, but drained 47 SR from my score as of last season.
I believe the SR you had in the previous season is the major determining factor in where you place. 

Your hidden MMR and how you play in each of the 10 placement matches, im sure, plays a role in where you end up. But likely most heavily dependent on the SR.

I around 3000 SR and always do my placements with a Top500 player (sad face that this is the only time we can play comp together), so we generally go against Master players. I still rank around my original ranking, ~3000
Yes.

Can we stop talking about skill floor and ceiling?
There are two completely opposite definitions for both, and both can be explained to make logical sense. I'm not trying to standardise, since by [xkcd law](https://xkcd.com/927/) it won't work. Can we just directly say what we mean and avoid the mental gymnastics trying to figure out which definition the OP subscribes to?

Just say it's harder/easier to do badly, harder/easier to be godlyWat? How are there two opposite definitions that both make sense? A ceiling is an upper limit and a floor is a lower limit. That's also true in other domains—see "glass ceiling", "price floor." 
_(edited to add) Note that the ASCII graphs don't seem to render properly in the Reddit app, so sorry if that's confusing. It looks fine in the browser though._

So, I believe the definition of "skill floor" that implies that Lucio has a high skill floor and Genji has a low [one comes from (or was popularized by) Skyline](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AQ4BAG520LY). I like him a lot, but I think that his definition is less reasonable than the one that implies that Lucio has a low skill floor and Genji has a high one. Here's why:

## Effectiveness Floor
### Skyline's Definition
Skyline makes a plot something like this, illustrating that even a very low-skill Lucio can be moderately effective. I agree with this: a team can benefit from the passive healing of a Lucio who just stays reasonably with his team, even if he doesn't know when to use speed boost, how to wallride, or how to use boops. His mere presence adds value to the team (especially before the 30m->10m change, but I think it's still true, even if less so now).

                         LUCIO
       +                                  XXXX
    e  |                               XXXX
    f  |                             XX
    f  |                           XX
    e  |                         XXX
    c  |                      XXXX
    t  |                    XX
    i  |                 XXXX
    v  |              XXXX
    e  |XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
    n  |
    e  |
    s  |
    s  |
       +-------------------------------------+
                         skill

Skyline draws a similar plot to illustrate that a hero like Genji needs a significant amount of skill to be even minimally effective. I also agree with this. Genji is extremely mechanically demanding and very easy to kill if he doesn't know how to use his abilities in concert. He also provides zero value for the team unless he is getting kills, or at least antagonizing and distracting the enemy team. Otherwise, he just provides some nice ult charge.

                         GENJI
       +                                  XXXX
    e  |                               XXXX
    f  |                             XX
    f  |                           XX
    e  |                          X
    c  |                        XX
    t  |                       XX
    i  |                     XX
    v  |                   XX
    e  |                XXX
    n  |             XXX
    e  |           XXX
    s  |        XXX
    s  |XXXXXXXXX
       +-------------------------------------+
                         skill

### Why This Isn't "Skill Floor"
So, I agree with these plots, and Lucio does indeed have a higher "floor" than Genji does. However, on these plots, _effectiveness_ is on the vertical axis, not skill. What this implies is that Lucio has a high **effectiveness floor**, and that Genji has a low one. And I think this makes good intuitive sense: the (soft) lower bound on how effective a Lucio is definitely higher than the one for Genji. But it's not a lower bound on _skill_, it's a lower bound on _effectiveness_.

## Skill Floor
The other definition for "skill floor", which I argue is the preferable one, indicates that Lucio has a low skill floor and Genji has a high one. It is the (soft) lower bound on skill to be minimally effective with that character. To understand this in the same terms as we analyzed Skyline's definition, we need to flip the plots around:

                        LUCIO
      +                                     X
      |                                   XX
      |                             XXXXXXX
      |                           XXX
      |                      XXXXXX
    s |                XXXXXXX
    k |              XX
    i |            XXX
    l |         XXXX
    l |       XXX
      |       X
      |      XX
      |      X
      |      X
      +-------------------------------------+
                    effectiveness


                        GENJI
      +                                     X
      |                                    XX
      |                                  XXX
      |                              XXXXX
      |                       XXXXXXXX
    s |            XXXXXXXXXXX
    k |        XXXXX
    i |     XXXX
    l |   XXX
    l |  XX
      | XX
      |XX
      |X
      |X
      +-------------------------------------+
                    effectiveness

Granted, it is a little strange to plot "skill" as though it were a function of "effectiveness", since the causality clearly runs the other way. And, plotting it this way makes the asymptotes vertical instead of horizontal, which removes the nice-looking, clear "floor" and "ceiling" shapes that we saw on the first set of graphs. However, you can still see that Genji requires much more skill to be minimally effective than Lucio does. There's still a soft lower limit of skill to be minimally effective, and a soft upper limit of skill beyond which effectiveness doesn't really increase. (The ceiling comparison would be clearer if I could plot them both together, but that's hard to do with ascii art.)

## Conclusion
The conflicting definitions of "skill floor/ceiling" are not equally valid. One definition is intuitively and mathematically more accurate than the other.

Skyline's definition is really of an "effectiveness floor", which is a totally reasonable thing to talk about. However, people seem to more intuitively grasp "skill floor/ceiling" (with the preferred definition I gave). I think this is because "skill" is something that people can think about more easily, in terms of measuring and developing it in their individual play.

Edit: formatting. Apparently the 3-backtick block notation doesn't work in reddit-flavored markdown.
The problem is people ignore the fact that a floor is the opposite of a ceiling, so when they pay attention to only "high" and ignore the word floor they're misunderstanding the term. 

A high skill floor hero is easier to start out with because the floor (the worst you can be with a hero) is higher, aka the worst skill level you can be with a hero is "high" 

Logically this makes sense and is correct by definition but people on the inter webs just gloss over things quickly and associate "high" with high skill ignoring the second part of the term floor. 

"High" doesn't mean "hard" as it's referring to elevation as it compares to a scale of effectiveness for a hero from low to high. 

It all comes down to incorrectly grouping words together.  "Low skill"  -> floor, or the correct grouping low -> "skill floor" 

Despite this being logically correct you'll find people fighting tooth and nail to defend their incorrect understanding of it. :-/ 

I suppose it's like Dale Carnegie says, "A person's mind changed against their will, is of the same opinion still." 

Agreed. Skill floor and ceiling are very helpful terms. Just because some people have the definitions wrong doesn't mean we should stop using them, it means we should correct them.
I think he talks about the misunderstanding when talking about low skill floor vs high skill floor. (and them with high instead of low and ceiling instead of floor)

Some people think that low skill floor mean that with low skill, you can't perform well meaning that you have a "low impact" with no skill.

Some people think that low skill floor mean that with low skill, you can still perform well, meaning that the minimum amount of skilled required to perform is "low".

Both make sense in a way and I am never sure which one is the accepted correct definition.
1. High skill floor means the hero is easy - The skill floor refers to how bad you can possibly be. That is, with no skill, this is the lowest impact you can have. On 30m radius Lucio, his skill floor by this definition was high

2. Low skill floor means the hero is easy - Skill floor here refers to how shit you  can be and still have a good impact on the game, or how skillful you should be before you pick up a hero. Genji here has a high skill floor because people with no skill have no impact

3. Low skill ceiling means it's easy  to be a god - Skill ceiling here refers to at what point your skill is no longer the limiting factor with a hero. For example, Symmetra can be said to have a low skill ceiling because it doesn't take a whole lot of skill to be a great Symmetra. Of course, it helps a lot, but I can't think of another hero that has aimbot all the time, and part of the kit being AI controlled.

4. High skill ceiling means it's hard to be a god - 1 point of skill gets you 1 point of value, until nearly infinity. There is no cap, or ceiling, to how much value you can get out of a hero as your skill increases. This means the best Widow in the world is really really good, and the fairly skilled Widows are really bad, since they're so far away from Widow's potential.

Then something that makes it worse is the hero's potential. Maybe a hero has a very high potential that's  hard to get to. That's point 4. But what if it's a high potential that's easy to get to? You don't need much skill to be a god, so that's a  low ceiling by point 3. At the same time, it's a high ceiling by point 4 because you can get a lot of impact out of the hero. This is considered OP I think
Thanks so much for doing this (looks great in Chrome, not sure about elsewhere). This is exactly what I wanted to say but gave up on because I couldn't figure out how to demonstrate it. After watching Skyline's video and the comment by /u/Powderbones below, this is describing the effectiveness floor, whereas most people on here are using the other definition as skill floor. Both are obviously useful stats as you've said but the confusion comes from people naming one as the other
(Word to the wise: Plots look great in Chrome, but are unreadable in the Reddit app.)
The issue arises again with the terms floor and ceiling. 

As I mentioned in my other comment most people on the web gloss over posts and just group "high skill" together before the word floor. This removes the purpose of the word floor itself by definition. (it isn't them being intuitive hehe)

Why? 

By your definition then, what hero has a low skill floor, and a high skill ceiling? Or what about a high skill floor and low skill ceiling? None. The floor or ceiling should be dropped and just use terms like "lucio is low skill" and "genji is a high skill hero."  

Sure some may argue "oh sure Lucio or mercy is easier to start out with but you have no idea the little things a grand master has to watch out for!" I get it, but the same and more can be said for the higher skill cap heroes. 

To summarize, using the term floor and ceiling automatically makes the focus on "effectiveness" by default, otherwise they serve no purpose and terms like high skill or low skill heroes should apply. 

But either way I'm sure we and the community will continue to agree to disagree so good chatting. 

(Maybe it has something to do with being left handed and more of a visual thinker. Is skyline left handed?! LoL would be interesting to take a poll, I still think the logic holds sounds tho either way) 
Finally got to look at your chart on a PC instead of a mobile device to see what you were trying to convey. Nice job. 

I also asked several gaming co-workers their opinion and it was definitely about 75% that look at it your way (which I figured based on how many people view it that way online.) 

When I asked how they viewed the term "low skill floor" they said what you said in your last statement essentially in that the hero requires less skill to be minimally effective. I asked my girlfriend and she actually agrees with you and I think the majority at this point. 

I can see both ways how the term can be taken after talking with several people, and I think you hit the nail on the head when you said:

>. However, people seem to more intuitively grasp "skill floor/ceiling" (with the preferred definition I gave). I think this is because "skill" is something that people can think about more easily, in terms of measuring and developing it in their individual play.

Intuitive by definition is instinctive or without much thought, something I was never good at as I always tend to over-analyze things. And it is "easier" to view the wording as "high/low skill" instead of high/low "skill floor." 

I don't agree when you say it mathematically is more accurate tho, and will say it's up to interpretation, even if the majority might see it one way since it largely depends on the individual. 


/u/adhocflamingo gives a good explanation of the differing definitions above, which is where the confusion comes from
This is exactly what I think. I think Skyline was the one that first laid it out. But I still see lots of people who go the other way
Only #2 is right. Soldier has a low skill floor because he's easy to pick up and be effective with but also has a high skill ceiling because the better you get with him the more rewarding it is. Symmetra on the other hand is easy to pick up(low skill floor) and has a low skill ceiling because no matter how much time you put into her, she's just not effective against a well coordinated team with DPS who can aim
Hooray! Yeah, I definitely had a lot of Thoughts after watching the Skyline video, so it was kind of nice to have an opportunity to write them up. :-D

FYI, asciiflow.com is very useful for making drawings to put in plaintext documents.
I took the time to write a lengthy formatted post with a thorough explanation and ASCII art to illustrate my point. I would hope that this would indicate that I did not "gloss over" the original post, nor did I "gloss over" Skyline's video in which he claims that many are using the terms incorrectly.

A "skill floor", whether it is a high one or a low one (recalling that "high" and "low" are relative terms) is a lower bound on _skill_. Just like a price floor is a lower bound on _price_. If you plotted price as a function of demand, the lower bound (soft or otherwise) on the plotted value is not a "demand floor", it's a "price floor", because _price_ is the quantity being measured and bounded. Similarly, if the quantity being measured and bounded is _effectiveness_ (in this case, as a function of skill), then the lower bound is an _effectiveness floor_. 

>To summarize, using the term floor and ceiling automatically makes the focus on "effectiveness" by default, otherwise they serve no purpose and terms like high skill or low skill heroes should apply. 

Nope, the terms "floor" and "ceiling" simply mean that we're talking about boundaries for some measured value. Those terms do not imply anything about the value that's being measured. That's what the descriptor in front of "floor" or "ceiling" is for. See also: price floor (lower limit on price), debt ceiling (upper limit on debt).

>By your definition then, what hero has a low skill floor, and a high skill ceiling? Or what about a high skill floor and low skill ceiling? None. The floor or ceiling should be dropped and just use terms like "lucio is low skill" and "genji is a high skill hero."  

Nope. Removing the terms "floor" and "ceiling" removes significant information. Low skill floor does not imply low skill ceiling.

To your questions, Lucio has a low skill floor (low skill required to be minimally effective) and a high skill ceiling (the point at which acquiring more skill no longer significantly increases effectiveness is high). A novice player can provide value with Lucio, but his kit allows for extremely creative play that allow extremely high-skill players to continue to be more effective as they improve their skills.

As for a hero with a high skill floor (high skill required to be minimally effective) with a low skill ceiling (the point at which acquiring more skill no longer significantly increases effectiveness is low), I would say Widowmaker, especially before her recent buffs. Widow is extremely powerful in the hands of someone with very good aim, but her kit is rather one-dimensionally oriented around aim (and positioning of course). And there's a limit to how good you can get with aim and still actually improve your kill stats. Compared to other heroes, Widow's kit doesn't lend itself to a whole lot of ability synergy, synergy with other heroes, or a wide variety of play styles. Also, her ult is a bit of a no-brainer: it charges quickly, and there's rarely a bad time to use it. Her buff will probably improve the flexibility and creativity people can use with her, but her very niche kit means that her effectiveness tops out at a relatively lower skill level than other heroes. (Again, everything is relative, and obviously high-skill Widowmaker players can be really powerful. They just have limited room to develop _more_ skill to become _more_ powerful.)

I agree to disagree in the sense that I believe you're entitled to hold and express your opinion. However, your logical argument is lacking. I don't mean that it's deficient, I mean that you didn't really make one. You mostly just stated conclusions and answered rhetorical questions without explanation or justification. So, yeah, I don't think your "logic" holds either way.
To clarify, when I say it's "mathematically more accurate", I mean that the terminology matches the way the plot is constructed. On a 2-axis plot, the y-axis is always understood to be the "measured/plotted quantity".

Again, I think (what I'm calling) effectiveness floor/ceiling are legitimately useful, intuitive, mathematically consistent concepts. I just think it's incorrect to call it a skill floor/ceiling based on standard mathematical plotting terminology.
Fair enough on my choice of examples, but there's no right or wrong definition of skill floor and ceiling. Everyone just runs with whatever they feel like. It's like gif vs jif or jujubes vs joojoobs
My last comment mentioned players in general glossing over the terms in question and their meanings, and did not mention you specifically. Perhaps you would have caught that had you not glossed over my last comment ? 

High and low are specific (not relative) in these groupings to floor and ceiling, not bound to the word skill, to address your first paragraph. Rewording to help you understand would be like saying "Lucio has a high floor of skill."  Again your misunderstanding comes from grouping high and skill together instead of skill and floor. 

In regards to your comparison of price floor and ceiling the logic stays the same throughout. If we compare to this model skill/effectiveness would be the price. If the price of something has it's floor raised, it cannot be purchased for less. Just like if the skill floor of a hero is raised, your effectiveness cannot be lower than the floor. 

To my point about not being able to name a high skill floor low skill ceiling hero, that logic also still stands, as your descriptions against said logic are a huge stretch of the imagination. Players like Kephri utterly decimate your widowmaker skill ceiling logic and the lack of top players like seagull / grimreality playing low skill ceiling heroes like Lucio counters your Lucio arguments. Just throwing out a random poll of who has a higher skill ceiling Lucio or widow would have overwhelming results and you know it. You're reaching. 


Above all else our major disagreement comes in the floor definition as we agree on the ceiling part. So, define for me and everyone else wha a "skill floor" is. NOT a high or low skill floor, just define what a skill floor is. When you answer honestly you'll see my logic rings true. 


There actually is a consistent way to think about it, though. The trick is to avoid conflating skill and impact like point 1 does above. The other three points are perfectly consistent with each other and align well with other uses of "ceiling" and "floor."

The issue isn't that ceiling and floor are ambiguous, it's that people conflate skill with impact. They're related, yet distinct. If you want to talk about impact instead of skill, then there's a different set of floors/ceilings to talk about. People just confuse the two sets of ceilings/floors with each other. 

(The two sets are not opposite, they're rotated 90 degrees from each other.)



Ana aim
I enjoy playing Ana. I am in mid plat and I have had a few vods as her reviewed. The most common criticism is that I need to have better aim. What are some aim drills to do specifically for Ana.

I do know about the Mei right click one, but that it is just for sleep darts. I really want to be good at Ana because she is fun, so any tips are appreciated.I'm also in plat trying to learn Ana. Here are some things that I think are helping me with my aim (which still isn't great but is hopefully improving).

- Rebind zoom to one of your mouse's side buttons. It will take a while to get used to this, but the advantage is that you aren't altering how you aim when zoomed in vs. not zoomed in because you will eliminate the tension in your hand that comes from holding right click.
- Rebind sleep dart to right click. It'll be easier to aim sleep darts than if you have it bound to shift. Also, aim for the feet when sleep darting as many heroes have larger hitboxes there.
- Practice quickscoping. Hitting shots from the hip is much less consistent since the bullets travel as projectiles in this mode, while as they are hitscan when you use sights. If you can master quickscoping, you get the benefit of more reliable aim from hitscan bullets without sacrificing much mobility or vision. 
- Aim for the center of mass since you can't get critical hits as Ana.
- Don't waste ammo. If you aren't likely to hit a target or if your target is at full health already, save your bullets. This will decrease the chances of you having to reload at an inopportune moment. 
- Try to time your shots so that you increase your chances of getting a hit. For example, if your Genji is jumping around everywhere, wait until he's at the apex of his jump to shoot.
- Position yourself so that you can easily view most of your team and so that you aren't obscured too much by other teammates who will block your shots. High ground is your friend.

As far as drills go, I would just play deathmatch a lot and prioritize hitting shots above everything else.

Another thing I will say is to not obsess about your accuracy stat too much. For a while I was trying to get >80% accuracy every game while scoped. What ended up happening is I took far fewer shots and spent more time aiming at my tanks to inflate my accuracy. Now, I try to prioritize shooting teammates that are about to die or enemies that are low health. My accuracy at the moment is hovering in the 68-78% range most games, which isn't great compared to good Ana's, but this is something I can improve with practice. 
I haven’t heard of the Mei right click one. Can you elaborate?
Learn to properly use grenade for that quick burst of heals when your team need it or punish agressive enemies.

Also stop holding nano for too long, it'll make you lose games. Just use it on someone during a push.
When Hanzo's bow is fully drawn the speed very closely resembles Ana's regular projectile speed. Off the top of my head they were about 1 m/s different. Try practicing some Hanzo
What's worked for me is:

1) Go to the practice range, and literally take 15 minutes to learn the timing of each of Ana's unscoped shots. 

Go up to the balcony overlooking the robots coming in and out of the doorways.

Then stand still and shoot the closest robot. After a minute or two of that. Shoot the next robot down. Etc. Make sure you pay attention to where you have to shoot to make the shots lands.

You'll get a very clear feeling of the delay, and travel time of her darts. 

Also practice your sleeps and bionades this way in between shots, since they have long cool downs. 

After a few days you'll see a lot of improvement with shots at any range.

After you're good at this. Do this practice again, but start moving erratically on the balcony. 


2) Practice flick shots in practice range. They are very useful, especially at close range. 

Also, flick shots are the best way to hit scoped shots. Once you get moderately good at flick shots while scoped, you'll hit jumping Genji and dashing Tracers with ease.

If you don't have a good mouse, upgrade. I used to use a $15 office mouse, upgraded to a Logitech G Pro, immediately gained the ability to quickscope and my average accuracy increased 5-10% once I got used to it. Sorry if this is less useful, I know not everyone has funds for a new thing and it isn't exactly personalized advice -- but it is one thing that really helped me improve my Ana play!
Steam :  Aim Hero.  Best money I ever spent. 
Sorry but the first 2 tips are absolutely stupid and won't help OP at all except mess with OP muscle memory and hurt it for the short term till he get used to new bindings. You can do just fine on the defualt bindings on ana, it's all pereference.
^Take this advice i do almost everything save for the sleep dart and zoom configurations and i get a similar range but it is lower ~72-75% pretty consistently per game (except when i have a few drinks in me and then the battle grandma comes out, mad fun by the way).  Also Id advise sleep dart practice in total mayhem but please dont be a dick and constantly sleep one person ive done it before and literally a couple games later it happened to me karma is a ruthless bitch 
Good tips. I *know* that having sleep dart be one of my mouse buttons is better but it'll take me too long to relearn so I won't change it. If you're new to Ana then give it a shot but if you're already used to her default controls then stick with it. My brother is a GM level Ana player and he just has shift as sleep dart and he's known for hitting crazy sleep shots. Rebinding it will help you but it's not the end of the world if you don't. 
Mei's right click is a similar ability in that it has a long trigger pull and has a similar travel time. You bind it to shift instead of right click and you practice aiming it, I guess against bots or people in quick play.
Hanzo's arrows drop, Ana's darts don't
Okay. 
Not the OP but wanted to give my 2 cents about this. I get your point about it being preference but people seem to often just stick with default settings without even trying out other options.

I don't agree necessarily with changing to side button because even aiming with tension on my thumb muscle feels different for me than normal aiming without holding down any buttons except for clicking LMB to shoot. I always thought I was used to aiming with RMB clicked for Ana but tried it with toggle zoom (mostly because I found out that Ryujehong does it that way), and found that noticeably improve my aim. Maybe it's because even if Ana's my main, I do play other heroes other than Ana a lot as well, all of which I would get aim practice without pressing down RMB and so that was screwing up my aim more than I thought. 

So I would actually encourage people to try toggle zoom since aiming without any tension of holding down a mouse button has definitely made a difference for me. The biggest downside was re-learning how to do quick scope so there is that trade off.
Yeah, it's true it will mess up with your muscle memory for a while. I did this based on a recommendation from one of Skyline's videos. I don't think it makes a huge difference, but personally I find it slightly easier to hit sleep darts using right click than shift. But the default bindings are okay, too. 
Endless sleep farting isn't possible anymore, they changed it to 8 sec cool down
Yeah, I probably shouldn't have mentioned the first two tips. I saw this in a Skyline video when I was first learning Ana and figured I would try out the change. I think you can play just fine with default bindings, it's something you shouldn't worry about if you aren't trying to go pro.
I dont think this is very good. Aim practice is aim practice i suppose, but if you use Mei right click to practice sleep dart it will just produce bad habits when playing Ana.
If you are going to practice sleep darts just create a custom game vs bots and remove the cooldown on sleep dart.
yes they do
i have been playing mei since release and have clocked over 250 hours with her; her right click is the most effective way to practice sleep darts. ana was easier to pick up for me because of the similarities with the icicle and the dart.
What bad habits? Give some examples dude, otherwise your response isn't very constructive.
no, they literally don't
why not just play custom game with no cooldown and use the sleep darts instead... 1:1 reality
Do they have the same exact cast time and speed? 
My bad
some people like playing against real people instead of bots; and if it's 6v6 ana dart only, it's going to be a shitshow with endless darts.
The tip of practicing with Mei's icicle used to be super popular before custom games was a thing. Another option is total mayhem where cooldowns are lower and enemies are still humans.
This. I thought this was so obvious I shouldn't have to actually explain it
Well idk about cast time, but I just looked and it appears sleep dart is 30m/s slower. Guess I was wrong. The idea came from a video by overwatchdojo

Why is QP more serious than Competitive?
in QP, i see more people actually playing proper comps (triple tank, dive etc).

Also, people are more toxic dicks in QP aswell than comp.

why is this a thingNot sure what QP you're playing. Or the converse of what Competitive tier you're playing. But my QP
Matches consist of Hanzo/Widow/Genji/McCree/Soldier. 

Also, no one talks in QP for me. 😒
My QP is as follows:

Myself: play who I'm practicing

Two kids fighting over Genji, one inevitably settling for Hanzo

One Lucio, stoned out of his mind

Some dude gawking over Widow

Reaper/Tracer for the guy who was late and couldn't pick one of the Naruto brothers 
I don't know what you're smoking but you're mixing them up or something.


I see an average of 1 tank per QP game. And I mean in all 12 players.


Hanzo-Widow average is 3, again in total in game.


Support average is 1.5 at best.


Its so bad.
Wat
You are an anomaly 
Don't forget Mercy, who tries to herd her team mates like a bunch of stray cats.
Dude this fucking hurts how accurate it is. Sometimes there's the weird second lock DVa who immediately switches to Tracer when the other team has a Zarya 
I died laughing at the widow part. 
I actually get legitimately angry when someone who's good at Mercy is playing Mercy in QP. It's like a cheat code. No other hero selection in any other mode makes me even close to as angry. I can't test myself if we're getting steamrolled because their Mercy is actually good

What are some specific tips for Reaper?
Asking because every advanced guide isn't at all advanced and is designed for people who have never played the hero before. I have 10 hours in him. 


I play him like a flanker, teleporting behind and performing surprise buttsecks on them or as a finisher in a team fight, or to shut down a push with my ult by diving from above. In Gold, this is extremely effective, but I'm not sure about how well it will work in higher ranks.

What are some good teleport flanks spots? My second favorite is Volskaya on attack going left side right out of the gate and teleporting on the platform across the gap and my favorite is on every Nepal map but especially Shrine.

What are some good lesser known flank routes? Kinda expanding on the second question.

What are some advanced tips? What else can I learn as Reaper?Id actually argue against him being a flanker, hes just not all that amazing at it in practice IMO. A good Genji or Tracer will be able to drop an enemy support just as fast as reaper will. Not only that but they have the ability to stick around without dying. A tracer can blink around the backline being very hard to kill and constantly being a problem, Reaper has to wraith out if hes caught by multiple people which means he has lots of down time in between wraiths. 

IMO Reaper is played best as a "Anchor DPS" Shreding tanks and taking potshots in to enemy dps in the frontlines. He has quite a bit of HP, can sustain well on his own with his passive, and has a wraith to reposition if people start to really focus him.  Against Reins or Winstons I like to push just infront of the sheild and either unload in to the Rein/Win head or start murdering their backline and just wraith and reset. 

In that sense he really is an easy hero, its all about pushing out a bit, dropping someone and wraithing behind your frontline so you can reset. This means hes almost constantly doing something and you take advantage of his high HP. Plus the constant fighting means you will very frequently have ultis which becomes much harder to play against because the enemy team ALWAYS has to prep for it.

Just my two cents, I get why people say hes a good flanker but I just dont think he does the role any justice. Good luck on the ladder :)
Your tactic will not work in higher ranks. I was in gold last season for a bit and played Reaper and was able to flank and do stupid stuff and get away with it but once u got into probably mid plat it wouldn't work and definitely didn't once u was in diamond.
Everyone always says that flanking and multi kill death blossoms don't happen in higher ranks, but they absolutely do if you know what to do, it just takes more on the spot creativity. 

A VERY important tip is if you are landing on top of someone with deathblossom and they dont see you coming, ALWAYS shoot them right before you ulti. The sudden instant burst of 400+ damage on a target is enough to kill a majority of things in the game.
A combo of both is a good tactic imp. I do heavily favor being in the thick of it the majority of the time however 

How are you supposed to attack numbani first point?
Im a diamond lucio main and every time I solo que my team just gets absolutely demolished when the try and attack the highground. If you try going any other way its fighting an uphill battle which is only winnable if you got a phara or genji to bug the people on highground.If you can coordinate your team, I've found the best way is to go far left around(by the pit), up the stairs to get to the right side high ground to take out any bastion/torb/ana that's posted up there. From there I typically just fall onto the point to take it. 
If they're all on the highground above the big healthpack, just walk low or main and right on spot. They can't hit you and have to drop down to contest. If they're spread on the different spots, dive them, do one or two quick picks and crush the rest. Being grouped as 6 and coordinating the push helps tremendously.
Had this happen yesterday in a placement or offseason comp match. Defenders were holding highground on the left side (above big health pack). We had no shield tank (rein/orisa/winston) and we were getting shredded trying to go through that little choke. 

We grouped up lower left and just walked right onto point and made them come to us. Forcing them to come to you gives you a huge advantage, almost flips the script of the attacker/defender mentality. All you have to do as the attacker is sit on the point, while the defenders now have to move in and push you off.

I love playing mental games like this in overwatch. Can really turn the tide of a game.
Yeah, if you walk as a team of 6 through that corridor on onto the far right high ground it's pretty easy to capitalize. But I thought you were gong to say coordinate with that Pharah or Genji he was talking about. Flanker mains often have a solo mentality, but they respond really well to a team trying to coordinate when to push from more than one angle. Calling out targets and when the rest of the team is pushing can let them know when it's easiest to do their job and usually yeilds great results.

Watching gameplay
Are there places to go to watch gameplay of others for critiquing and uploading your own gameplay for others to tell you how to improve? I am learning tracer and want to have some better tracers tell me what to do better or stop doing. Plus I'd really like to help others with stuff too. :-)
ThanksFlowfeedback is a great site to go to for this~! You can upload your own gameplay, review it yourself and also make it public so others can see it and review it as well. 
You can also search for vods of fellow Tracers on there and comment on those too as well as reading ones left by others~!


You can also upload your gameplay here on this sub and ask for critique~
OH- also you can type "Tracer vod" in the searchbar on this sub and you'll see quuuiite a few posts with tracer vods pop up with people reviewing them in the comments~!

https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/search?q=tracer+vod&restrict_sr=on  


Good luck~!!
Thank you 10000% ! This was extremely helpful. I plan on uploading tracer gameplay one day soon, so excited to be critiqued! Thanks again!
Aw you're very welcome, I'm happy to have been of service~!! I hope you get the critiques you wish for~!! <3 

Switching to PC - how do I find groups?
I'm a low diamond flex support on XB1 making the jump to PC. Can't wait! On XB1 I use Overwatch Competitors Club for grouping up for comp. What's the equivalent for PC?There's a sub for it, r/OverwatchLFT

I also just made the jump to PC about 3 months ago, and it's been an amazing experience, but I left all of my overwatch teammates behind, so I mostly solo queue and get looked at weird for knowing tactics as a level 91 silver. 
If you are interested I am a member of an active and still growing Discord group and could send you a link invite. We're a salt/tilt free group so friendliness is key.  
All SR ranges from bronze to GM. OW focused but also branching into Destinty2 and PUBG. We do scheduled games via www.the100.io and also random pickups by messaging the whole group by @Diamond, @Platinum, etc.
You could also take a look at [owls.co](https://owls.co/); you put in your battletag, state a few preferences (e.g. "I play for fun" vs "I play competitively") and the system puts you into a lobby of like-minded people, where you can arrange a group for future games.
the r/Overwatch subreddit has a discord for LFG and LFT players. It fills up fast and you get to play with some kind strangers (:
I'll help you and coach you. If you're interested... Hit me up. (I am sitting at master)
Also r/overwatchlfg
can I get an invite. 
Can i get in too?
I'd love an invite! This sounds perfect. I'm dwmdmdmd#8561 on discord or DM me. Thanks!
Please invite me. Sounds awesome. 
I'd also want an invite if possible
LFG LFT?
"kind"
Awesome, for sure!
Would love one as well
You bet check your DM.
Sure thing I just DMd you the nfo!
rightio, check those DMs!
Sure thing check your DMs!
Sure thang, DAM incoming!
looking for group and looking for team
Try to send me a video footage of you playing I'll try and review it and tell you what you're doing wrong so you could work on it.
Sure thing, just DM'd you.
 Thanks

Aiming - Few thought about all the tips, tricks trainings or settings people use to improve.
Like many players before me, I had to work on my aim a lot. I'm still not as skilled as many players but at least I'm getting better every day.

People often ask in this subreddit "how do I improve my aim" or "what is the right sensitivity", or "wich is better, aiming with your arm on the desk or off the desk?"

I've read all the topics and saw all the videos about training and tracking and flick shots and good sensitivity...Everything. At some point, I've started to be really frustrated because I felt that my aim was not getting better despite all the work and training I was doing. It was like I was stuck with a skill level and could not go further.

Here's few things I would like to say. Maybe people won't agree with me but I think I can help one or two people : There's no magic trick, no perfect setting, no perfect training. You won't suddenly have a great aim because you use the same settings as a pro, keep your arm off the desk or do thousands of flick shots. I would even say, you can do all that and just become even worse at aiming. You will improve a bit at first, yes, but not become truely good.

Truth is way more boring : You have to build your aim slowly, step by step. You have to feel the need of a specific setting to use it. A flickshot training is a very very bad thing to do if you don't already have a good slow basic  aim. Using a very low sensitivity is very bad if you struggle to get use to it. Lifting your arm off the desk is a bad idea if it's not how you feel confortable.


So how do we improve our aim? And what I'm about to say is also true if you already have a decent aim but you feel you don't improve anymore! 

Clean slate. No bad habits allowed. Do basic, boring and slow aiming exercises with a random setting and build on top of this. 

As training, you don't start with flickshots, strafing and moving target. You need to start slow and keep it that way until you NEVER MISS ONE SINGLE SHOT. That's the key - no shortcuts. You don't do it until you think it's easy, you do it until you're so perfect you could do it half asleep. When you do perfect shots, then you can start moving a bit. When you do perfect shots again, start to run around and straf. When it's perfect, use moving targets. When you can land every single shot on moving targets while speaking to your SO about the weather, then you'll have all you need to build a real skill against players. During all that training, you try new sensitivity when you NEED it. 

In the end, and that's probably the best way to improve : If your basics are perfect, every single game you play will make you a little better. 

So here's my answer to all the questions about aiming : no shorcuts and no magic setting. Like every skill we can learn, it's all about the basics.The only issue I seem to notice with my aim is that I tense up when aiming at the enemy's neck/shoulder region. I haven't seen much advice on how to rectify that.
Fundamentals 
what dp you think would be the different scenarios i should run through specifically to gt better aim? is it something like:
1. practice aim on stationary targets while stationary
2. practice aim on stationary tarhets while strafing
3. 2 but u jump as well
4. 1. but targets start to move
etc ? ehat would you suggest? right now my aim is really bad and i really want to improve it (overwatch is my first fps and in previous mobas i always supported so i am unfortunately one of those dreaded mercy mains). ive been trying to learn ana but my aim issues are rly stopping me (aka not necessarily headshots needed, just need to hit a moving target well and consistently because genji and tracer etc are very mobile heroes that i struggle healing)
There was this book I read called "The Richest Man in Babalyon". It's about some sort of ancient Babylon wisdom. One of the stories was about a Shepard who decided to become a merchant. He had heard from a friend, a goat herder, that he could buy diamonds from one place and sell them for ten times their value in their homeland. So he decided to go and do it. Turns out he bought glass. Moral of the story is that you should listen to experts.
It's because you're getting excited. I do this when aiming at pharah because I want to kill her so bad. It's 100% a mental issue so you have to just tell yourself that when you're in that situation it's no big deal. What helped me get used to headshots is playing quickplay and paying zero attention to anything about the game except just looking at people's heads and clicking the mouse. Didn't care if I won or lost or died 100 times. I was able to calmly get lots of headshots and now it's no big deal to me.
Emotions can mess with your aim. You have to trust your reflexes and your training. Your muscles knows what to do, it's your brain who's messing with the shots. I don't have many advice on how to go around that except to take a deep breath when you engage an ennemy.

One thing tho : If you're too excited, frustrated or angry = quit comp for a while. Do something else. I like to do some QP for few easy kills and build up confidence.
Some exercice for basic aim : go in training range. Face two steady bot. Aim the head of one bot then switch to the other. Keep switching until you can smoothly aim directly at their head witout over or under aim. When you can perfectly do that, do it faster. When you're very comfortable' do it while strafing a little. Keep rising the difficulty like running back and forward and straf all around the bots.

Second exercise : aim a bot's head, don't shoot at all. Move around the bot but keep your reticle in his head. Do it until you can move around while  keeping your reticle in the middle of the head. Once you can do it perfectly, do the same on a moving bot.

It seems a bit silly but the trick here is to give tou real strong and clean basic aim and make your hand and arm used to it. You may want to train on regular basis until it feels natural.

Last exercise : use those skills ingame.

Don't try to rush the process. The key is not to do it well but do it perfectly.
Deathmatch is really good for this as well. Every single fight is a "clutch moment" that only happens every 10 minutes in comp/QP, so you get over the whole excitement thing relatively quickly.
Yeah it's nuts, it sounds well pansy admitting it but sometimes I get a real rush of blood in certain matches in the right conditions - normally when it's a really close game or I have an opportunity to clutch up. Always have to calm myself down in those moments or I know my aim will be WAY off
thanks dude! I'll be sure to try it out :D

Manning Zarya for season 6!
Need tips now! I seem to always get to a really high charge and then die because a mercy isn't enough healing. 

P.S. I have no problems with graviton combos, have many friends who can help me with that.Zarya is extremely effective if you have team players. I tried using her in comp matches, but she's completely useless if your teammates aren't around. 

Of course, if you aren't solo queuing, this is a fab idea. Zarya is among my top three heroes. If only I could use her to her full potential. 

If you have many friends, try getting them to stay by you. Never go in front. Only use your shield when you are being targeted. Best of luck to you!

EDIT: I just went through your post history... You're messed up!
Play around cover whenever possible. You say you die because of lack of healing and you have high charge, it may be because you're burning your personal bubble too early just get charge and not using it to keep yourself alive. Playing around cover allows you to wait for your bubbles to come up again and avoid death. Also keep your distance/LOS from heroes that can kill you quickly, like reaper, widow, and mccree.
it's an old guide but id still highly recommend watching this guy he's a good Zarya

https://youtu.be/s7SopaDZxFk?t=2

If i may, I'd like to ask for some zarya streamers I could watch, thanks!
When you get high charge, it may be a good bet to play wayyyy more safe, because whatever you do is effective (you have theorical dps of soldier non-headshot close range) while being a tank, which is already awesome.

Although playing unsafe to get a key pick is not out of the question. Watch who looks at you and those who don't. Consider those who don't look at you "not actively trying to get you yet" and make your bet.

Edit: You can snowball pretty hard while high charge. Remember it.
If you feel like you're not getting enough healing, try playing a bit safer as a high charge zarya is an insanely good asset to a team. Focusing enemy tanks will help you build ultimate faster especially a dva (I freaking love playing vs dva's who try to focus me, because it just means you gaining a shit ton of ult charge every time she gets de meched).

DuoQ is always a good idea, playing with a main tank can help guaruntee that you have someone to farm your charge off, playing with a dps that compliments grav is good too, or if you're confident getting high charge on your own, Q with a support main and ask them to pocket you as much as they can.
I recently opened a threat on how to survive as a zarya.
https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/6tsv5o/how_do_i_survive_as_zarya
 
Zarya excels as an off tank, she's almost like an emergency "healer" for teammates about to die, and bubbling a low health Genji might give him time to run to a healthpacks or a healer. That being said, she's at her best with another tank and a healer, so you do need to count on your team having your back for you to have theirs.
1. Get charge
2. Left click
3. Right Click
4. Use grav
5. Win game

Look at sinatraa play Zarya on youtube there's a video of him getting like 3 gravs in two minutes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZilaVRrrzLs

This. Play defensively with Zarya until you have your personal bubble. Then you can go more aggressive and pop your bubble after you start taking heat - but you want to have somewhere you can pull back to and break LOS so you don't die and waste that charge. Rinse and repeat. Start focusing on not dying and you'll be a consistent high-charge threat.
twitch.tv/harbleu - he mains Zarya and roadhog. He's hilarious and you can learn a ton from him by listening to how he coordinates his teammates

twitch.tv/spreeow - Spree is also top tier and is one tricking Zarya at the moment
I got pretty good at Zarya when you realize you're a tank again. Your primary job is to soak up damage, and help your team soak up damage. The additional damage boost just helps you trade in the process, and your ult is a tremendously critical one to land. 

Are assists suppose to count as your eliminations?
Haven't played competitive in a long time. I recently won my first 2 placements of the season. I've noticed on my scoreboard I would get on average, at-least 30 eliminations.

I've kept a good track of both matches. I've noticed a majority of my eliminations are mostly assists/final blows, pretty much helping the team out.

Do you think, later on next season, assists wouldn't count towards your eliminations?Assists have counted as elims since release day, i don't see Blizz making any changes to this.
Yup.. unless you're playing Deathmatch, then you only get credit for actually killing them, even if you only do 1hp of damage.. 
Assists and Eliminations are different statistics completely.

Elimination - You did direct damage to the person within a reasonable amount of time before they died (I don't know the specific timing on this) The screen says "Eliminated *player name* and then a Number indicating how much of the kill you helped with. The kill feed only shows the person who did the LAST damage, not the most. If you do 99% and tracer gets the final hit - Tracer gets the credit in the kill feed but you both get an Elimination. 

Assist - You assisted the kill in a way that is NOT direct damage. So if you are healing the person who gets an elimination that is an assist. Zen gets assists if the person who dies had a discord on them, Orisa gets an assist if she Halts! the hero right before they die. Damage bosting by Mercy/Orisa is an assist. You'll see on the screen that it says "Assist 25" or "Assist 15" depending on how much you helped. You also know you got an assist if a smaller picture of your hero shows up on the kill feed next to the hero that landed the final blow. 

So Eliminations are not assists. Not all heroes are capable of getting an assist. It is also possible to get an assist and NOT get an elimination stat. 
 
Wait, what? Are you talking about official "assists" as in, it tells you you assisted someone when they get a kill while you are healing them, or "assists" as in, you shoot someone down to 5% health and someone else gets the final hit on them but it gives you an "elimination" notification? 


I'm pretty sure "assists" do not count towards your eliminations stats but multiple players can get an elimination if they both did significant damage.
I hate it when someone with 10 hp gets away and you don't get credit for him if someone finishes the kill because you're dead
So that little picture of Sombra I see is an assist after I hacked/EMPed someone :3.
Oh wow, yea i'm an idiot. Totally forgot the whole assist aspect of the game...
It's a God send for my scatter arrows :)
well you do get a lovely assist... lol but no elim
*Your* scatter arrows. Mine don't hit shit unless I shoot it at their feet.
Is there assist kills? I don't think there is. You just get no credit.
lol i had so many scatter kills last night it was unbelievable. 
Well it shows you on the tab screen and final screen, 20/9/6 which is 20 kills (actual final blows) - Assists (you did damage but didn't kill) - Deaths.
I'm not talking about DM though

Placements...
What do you guys/gals think, would it be better to solo q or dual q? Is there any benefit to choose one over the other?That´s on your skillset.

Are you a good teamplayer? Are your friends?

Yes then your stack might be in Advantage over the opposing stack.

Are you a good mechanical Player with poor teamplay? Then it might be benifitial if you meet no premades on the other side and you increase chances not to by queueing solo.
Way overthinking things.

Elo is just going to be calibrated around your long-term habits anyways.

Doing special "win-more" strategies during placements just means you will be overrated and get wrecked by higher rated DPS until you fall to where you belong.

I am a pharah main and I know my skill range is 2300-2700. When I start to get close to 2700 then 3k rated DPS start carrying games. When I am 2300 I carry easily. Could I place 2700 duo-Q with a mercy main? Maybe but I would get put back in my place asap.
Honestly, I find 2-3 to be the sweet spot, but I really think it depends on your friend. Can the two of you organize and lead your team more often than most other duos? Are the two of you better players than most other duos? Do the two of you choose characters that synergize well with each other? If you answer yes to these questions, duo.

Also, to think selfishly, is your teammate better than you? Queueing with friends always favors the worst player in the group (to some extent, they get carried a bit higher in the ranks, despite matchmaking's attempts to not make this happen). If your friend is better than you, duo will improve your rank slightly, while decreasing her/his rank slightly.
for now it's better to duo q sence we don't know what's the meta dive meta etc but some ppl say to bring zarya to counter new junkrat and with orisa buff to bring orisa and reinhardt so we might be getting triple tank meta again but with double barriers (from reinhardt and orisa)
I solo q'd twice (1W/1L) then grouped with 3 others and had a fun time thru the rest of placements. If you can find someone you play well with and can make the experience more enjoyable, I'd definitely recommend that over solo q.
0-5 over here trying to solo queue and getting tossed into 5 mans each time with derp teammates lol. Horrid luck. My 6th game was an actual solo queue game on both sides tho and we crushed it.
Probably  
Definitely a team, every solo q game i played bar for 1 was a tremendous defeat.
What did you play
Before you blame the matchmaker or teammates, keep in mind you're the only common denominator in those games.
Flex.
It was a combination of both, I played like absolute shit AND there were idiots that just wanted to play Torb and Hanzo because "lol, it's just placements ecks dee." However, I discovered later that a part of the problem of my doing shit was because I played against players at about 3200 SR and I'm only a trash plat (around 2700-2900) and the games that I performed well and won I was playing around my proper SR, and thus, got placed accordingly. Still doesn't excuse my shit performance and I blame myself for that.

1 minute OT and the Sym pick
I usually try to dissuade the Sym pick whenever my team has to defend for 1 minute on an overtime round.

The reasoning being that 1 minute is barely enough for her to charge her ult, and that thus it is a much safer bet to get that player to play something that might make your team's composition more solid.

Thoughts?I think the real assumption being made here is that Sym's ult is of greater use than the rest of her kit relative to other heroes and their ults - specifically at the one minute left mark. And I'm not sure that's true.

Sure, the main reason to run Sym in a standard match is for her tp/shields, but she's also really good for zoning the enemy team either away from the point or away from each other and basically cause chaos enough to throw off the red team's last push.

Could there be a better hero for the described role? Probably, but maybe the player feels more comfortable with Sym's kit than say a Junkrat. 
Her ult can get 50% charge five seconds after the door opens if you do it right. TP can be up during the first teamfight.
It depends entirely on the map. Maps with few paths to the point, or where the alternate path is far away/requires flying, are great for a one minute hold. She's great for area denial and forcing the enemy to split up. Her ult really doesn't matter much in a one minute scenario unless it's very close (the goal is to make it so difficult to get to point that nobody has to ult at all). It also does charge very quickly with good turrret placement. I don't think she's a good pick for some more open maps for a minute hold, like Volskaya, maybe even Hanamura, those first points are so weak and open to just pushing past into a safe room, with too many alternate routes right at the gate. It actually works fine on Numbani (I think one of my favourite Sym maps) because all alternate paths join nicely in one corner that is defensible. Anubis is okay too as long as the enemy team can't get to the top right and take the high ground over the point -unlike Volskaya or Hanamura there's no alternate flying route. 
Completely dependant on the team as a whole and which map. I dont play Sym, but Im not opposed to having one on Anubis point A. She can control the space to the right, of the choke from point side so they cant really ambush from the mega hp. She can do that solo since its such a tight space, with the exception of the enemy having a Winston of course. This gives the team the ability to focus the main doorway and the left side where the mini hp is. This is just one example, but there of course are always different variables to take into account.

You can never judge the pick by minor data. A Sym can be a beast with 1 min to defend or she can be utterly useless. In general, I just go with whatever my team feels comfortable with, I think that usually gets the best results.
Sym takes 1000 points to charge her ult. A damage boosted ball that hits the entire enemy team at the door gives her 936 points toward that ult before armor. Minor chip from turrets, a second small ball, or even just travel time (hello numbani/lsc) will finish that off. 

Obviously that's the best case scenario, but you get the idea. Don't knock it if you don't actually know how to play sym. 
I'm not a big fan of switching heroes mid match to utilize one of their specific abilities (and reset ult meter). If your teammates needs to switch, they need to work on a better pick to prevent themselves of getting into that situation. I have 22 hours clocked in with sym, running both offense/defense, and can tell you if you know how to use her she is *not* a one trick to be used in clutch situations only. Look more at what that player did *before* they had to switch to sym, you can even have them play sym the entire match to see if they execute better with her.
What do you mean 1 minute is barely enough time to charge her ult? I got my ult in <10 seconds the other day. A tp in a one minute match is huge. 
I agree and I play a decent amount of sym in plat. I usually go healer or torb if it's OT with not much time. If it's over 2 minutes, I think sym is still a good pick. But depends on their comp, if they run Winston and pharah then definitely not going to run sym.
If Sym can put her turrets in positions that maybe might not do as much damage, but force the enemy team to find and kill them it can waste valuable time in a 1 min overtime.
You're at the same rank as the symm so I don't know why you think you know any better.

Or so they've told me.
Symmetra has a very fast charging ult. considering you think this way you will probably be at an SR where a mercy is guaranteed to be on your team, which means damage boosting sum makes her build ult that much quicker.

It depends on the map but a team cooperating with a Symmetra pick and hold first points with relative ease
Symmetra is quite powerful if you know how to play her. Its possible ( easily!? ) - to get gold elims and gold damage with her. So dont underestimate her.
sym is almost always an inferior pick, if you can choose between sym or another dps or support its almost always better
~~That's great and all for the first team fight. OP is referencing the last team fight or two of the game. You won't have the opportunity to set up the carwash outside of enemy spawn in the last minute of the game.~~

Edit: Apologies. Just realized OP said OT round. I was thinking last minute of a round and going into OT.
> If your teammates needs to switch, they need to work on a better pick to prevent themselves of getting into that situation.

This is extremely reactive thinking. You can't go back in time and change to the hero you 'should' have picked in the first place. But you *can* proactively switch during a match to positively change your fortunes. Of course a pre-requisite is to actually know what you're doing with the switched-in hero, but the same applies to ANY time you select a hero.

Bad / thoughtless switches can be bad sure but good switches can be great. You can really throw the enemy team off their game with an unexpected switch. You don't even need to be introducing a new hero to abuse any particular ability - just the switch in of itself can put the enemy on the back foot briefly as they re-adjust. That small window of confusion can sometimes be all that's needed to swing things in your favour.

Constantly switching without regard to your team comp or ult economy are hallmarks of bad play, yes, but it's perfectly possible to change things up mid-match without committing these blunders. You just have to be selective about which heroes you're switching & employ good timing.
not really, and if you have gold damage as sym you are prob gonna lose anyways. doesent matter what you do.
I agree that some situations call for a switch up that may win the match due to throwing off your opponent. What I'm saying is isolating *why* your team was left in a scenario where a switch is needed. 

For example, over the last few nights on Twitch I've monitored two separate players played as Genji and other McCree who were *destroying* with kills but at the last moment, switched to Tracer to rush in and contest but ultimately kept losing every round. After looking into their stats, I've realized both had extremely high damage and eliminations for both but very high deaths and low objective kills. If these players simply switched up their priorities and positioning they would've never had to switch players and play catch up. Instead of "filling a role" or playing someone you get most kills with *does not* necessarily translate to a win, playing a specific character correctly, does.
Have you watched just_stevo's bronze to gm videos ?

Yes I know he is a GM player playing against lower tier players - but afaik he used to consistently end up with gold damage. I think people underestimate symmetra's damage potential.
Interesting. That probably says more about the need to play towards the objective more than anything about switching, but on the other hand it does quite plainly illustrate that purposely holding out for a last-minute switch may be a poor strategy, as much as it can be an effective tactic.

I'd posit that aiming to win though strategy is a much more solid approach than aiming to win through tactics, even in a fast-paced mechanical skill-based game like ow.
yes but thats because stevo is a great player, he could probably do it with most heroes imo

vs good players, they will stay away from your primary fire. it will be really hard to get up close.
Agreed and that's why I love Overwatch. I expect my mechanical skills to decline as I age there's characters that I'll be able to use by simply being strategic that off pure skill.

Which crosshair settings to you find works best for Roadhog?
I have trouble knowing where to look with his hook and was wondering if anybody could give some options for crosshairs that help with this.I find round crosshair to be the best with shotgun type heroes
I use a small green cross with no bloom for roadhog. But I have played a ton of the hero so I already know his shot spread really well so I dont need the crosshair telling me. my crosshair really helps me focus on centering my shots and hooks as well as doesnt obstruct my view like the big circle does.
Medium size circle and dot. Use the dot mostly but the circle helps to get partial shots if you are desperate.
It's all preference, I use a circle about the size of squishies heads at point blank range, with a see through dot 
I like big circles, especially for Roadhog, for shotgun heroes.
Would you happen to have any settings that would be good?
So default or any particular crosshair settings?
The old Hog circle before advanced crosshair settings along with spread turned on. Worked wonders for me.

Good ways to guess distances?
I have been playing a lot of Roadhog recently, and I feel like I struggle with guessing a good distance for his alt fire. I hear people saying that you should try to be 10m away from your target before you fire but I have no way to tell how far I am from an enemy. Are there any tips or methods that I can follow to help me get better at gauging distances in places other than the practice range?I think this is mainly gonna be one of those trial and error gets-easier-the-more-you-play sort of things

That being said, his hook is 20 meters right? You could go into the practice range, throw it about and try to gauge it a lil
You just gotta hit the practice range o custom games until you get a feel for it. 

It's pretty easy on the practice range since the distances are marked out on the floor. 
I just shoot it at any one decently far from me, if it's too far for me to run up and primary fire I'll spam alt from the distance until I can hook one in and start using primary 
The more you get used to it the more it will become second nature, to the point where you dont have to pause and decide if it will be a good right click, you just immediately know. as already mentioned, go into practice range and there is a part on the floor that marks exactly how far 10 meters is. a lot of the time your right clicks wont do an insane amount of damage anyway, as you will use it on anyone that is more than left clicking distance from you.

Overwatch Game Tracker for Google Sheets.
During the last season I've been working on a tracker after using some web services and an Excel sheet a friend of mine shared with me (I'm not that sure, but it must have been /u/MasterDex's).

In any case, this sheet I've been working on includes:


* **The Tracker**: the game log itself.
* **The Dashboard**: It's a single view in which most used heroes, worst maps, and stats like that are displayed.
* **Hero/Map Progression**: Two single sheets in which the user can select a single map or hero in order to see its evolution. I find it useful to find patterns in certain maps or things like that.
* **SR Evolution Graph**.
* **AVG. SR Win/Loss evolution**. 
* **WR evolution**.


So there's that. If you wanna use it, modify it or learn from it, go ahead. This file allowed me to learn about using some *advanced* features in Google Sheets like Query (used in the Worst/Best Heroes/Maps). 


However, due to some features that might be unique to Google Sheets it might not work as intended in other apps (however, being possible to use Google Docs offline in Chrome, it doesn't really bothers me).

—

Here's the link for a blank one: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1OYS5iZnac1mhMZLEQZ4sF-xwIf7eYHNBzaz_18ggTm0/edit#gid=1018446728

—

And, here's the link for a sample one: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1KpCzuhnlSZpff84DXu1Zq2JYC3QvF9Hy665TZY29rWI/edit?usp=sharing

—

If something doesn't work as intended or you know of a certain feature that might be useful just write it down here, the file is set as "view only" in order to preserve it but I'm always adding new stuff or fixing things (the 0.9 used to have a decay timer, translation and even a few extra sheets in order to be able to migrate data, but those things just made the whole doc too slow and broke some stuff like the Hero selectors on the tracker, so for the 1.0 I started from scratch again). In any case, the Tracker sheet itself being pretty solid, new features might be added in the form of new sheets (so that migration is not needed).

———

Edits 

—

08/31: The sheet itself doesn't include any kind of manual or something, so…
Instructions:

* **Before everything else**, if you wanna get a copy of the template, click File > Make a copy. It should save it to your Google Drive account.

1. The first thing to fill is [this cell](http://imgur.com/7VmgeCF) once you have your first SR once you have managed to rank.

2. After that the process is quite easy, after each match put [your SR in the SR column](http://imgur.com/EvmaV1f) (G10 is the first one). Once that's done, the sheet should automatically process the date, the SR difference, if you won, etc.

3. Then proceed to fill the data you want to: the more, the more useful the file will become: Map, hero(es), SR AVG per team, notes (I myself use it to write down the name of my mates if I queue with someone and new things I learn), etc. After a few matches you'll be able to get [some useful data](http://imgur.com/IUemUPq) from the [Dashboard sheet](http://imgur.com/VYrqL4b).

—

08/31: Just seen u/Basilisk335's [sheet](https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/6e6xfw/basilisks_overwatch_performance_tracker_updated/) and decided to add quickly one widget on the top right corner: Daily SR. It's quite simple, it sums the SR you've made during the last 24 hours, which is something I tend to check but never thought of including. So, If you haven't started to fill your sheet, I'd advise you to delete the old one and start in the new one, sorry.

—

08/31: u/paranoidandroid11 asked for a widget that tells you *how much SR is needed to get to the next rank*. Even though I didn't put it with the other widgets on the top, if you find it more useful than the ones that are alread on there, you could as well have it. It's not that difficult: just replace the text in cell AL1 (or any widget you don't find useful) with this and it should do the trick.

    =IF(AM1=0;"";IF(AM1<ASSETS_RANKS!A5;AM1-ASSETS_RANKS!A5;IF(AM1<ASSETS_RANKS!A6;AM1-ASSETS_RANKS!A6;IF(AM1<ASSETS_RANKS!A7;AM1-ASSETS_RANKS!A7;IF(AM1<ASSETS_RANKS!A8;AM1-ASSETS_RANKS!A8;IF(AM1<ASSETS_RANKS!A9;AM1-ASSETS_RANKS!A9;IF(AM1<ASSETS_RANKS!A10;AM1-ASSETS_RANKS!A10;IF(AM1<ASSETS_RANKS!A11;AM1-ASSETS_RANKS!A11;IF(AM1<ASSETS_RANKS!A12;AM1-ASSETS_RANKS!A12;"")))))))))

—

09/01: As u/Lepalose [says](https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/6x7ydg/overwatch_game_tracker_for_google_sheets/dmev0ao/): 

> A small reminder for people copying this for their own purposes - **make sure to check File>Spreadsheet Settings and make sure the location data is correct for where you live**. This will effect the auto-updating of the "Day" (and language of the day as well).

You can see that in the first column days are accounted in spanish in the sample sheet (LUN. is short for Lunes, which is the spanish for Monday), you might want to change that… Conditional formatting (each day is highlighted with a slightly different colour) should keep working as I *harcoded* it to work in both locales. 



Now that is a handsome spreadsheet. Super well done. Thanks for this!
This might be a stupid question, but is this information aggregated from Blizzard, or do you meticulously update this thing after every match you play? 

If the former is the case, how can I utilize this?

If the latter, how the hell do you keep up with it?
Awesome spreadsheet
Very underrated post right here
I made something like this for my friends and I for season 3. We used it for a while until we got annoyed with submitting a new form every game. 
Love this! (how ow now can't give you these stats boggles my mind. It just seems so... Obvious) 
Thank you! I used a different one last season and starting looking after work for another one. Good timing sir!  Also really digging the style and layout!

1. Question: Do we need to turn on any conditional formatting for this in google sheets?

2. Fun Comment: Don’t recall who put out the last one I used but a super useful cell I added would do a simple calculation of average SR gain to determine how many wins until the next tier. I realize with win streaks and whatnot it doesn’t always work. Either way, it was a nice gauge to quickly see how close/far I was to getting to Plat. This also doesn’t really work until you play 20+ games as well. Haven’t had a full look through yours yet but I figure I can still make it work in a few weeks once enough data is in there to get a realistic number. 

Figured I’d add the comment here in case anyone else wanted to mess around with it after they get some games recorded.  

This looks so good! Really well done! Will there be somewhere we can check for updates...?
Just in time for season 6
Nice job.  Looks useful once I figure it out!  Thank you!
Wow, this looks great, thanks for the work!

Just one observation though, AI6 is currently SIZE, but I believe that it's supposed to be RED based off of the other column next to it.
Your spreadsheet looks great. Is there a way to enter placement matches?
A small reminder for people copying this for their own purposes - make sure to check **File>Spreadsheet Settings**  and make sure the location data is correct for where you live. This will effect the auto-updating of the "Day" (and language of the day as well) 
hey, looks like you've made a great manual tracker. probably going to use it for this season. BUT i got one question. since you've added time and days on the board and it seemingly don't track that automatically as i type in a different value, how do i track it? i've seen you've entered "LUN" there, which doesn't tell me anything really. i used basilisk's version last season, and that time had to edit that part of his setup because it was lacking, he'd only made a example that made the non-working tracker look like it worked. (trying to learn excel again was... interesting)

appreciate your work ;)
That spreadsheet looks way too complicated for me to consistently fill in... Once the game is over, I will go over to the spreadsheet and be like, so erm... damn, what was their SR again?
Stupid question but how can I copy or download the file and edit it?
I've seen a variant of this which includes a notes section for each match to record what went right and what went wrong and needs improvement. Is there a chance to include a notes section for each match for that purpose?
What does "Global SR" mean (AG5)?

What does GRP then SZE mean? It's to the left of Global SR

Tag this post as NSFW cause this spreadsheet is sexy af. Really big upgrade from my home brew contraption.
So I forgot to jot down my stats after my first few games post-placements, should I just start from there? Also I do have my starting SR from right after placementse
How should I keep track of placement games on this?
Thanks for the awesome spreadsheet! It's very helpful. Looks cool too!
If I wanted to play a pen and paper spreadsheet RPG, I would find a D&D group gaddamit!

But I'm curious how many people use these sheets. I tried OverTrack but I dont feel like waiting for it to upload a 20MB file to the server after every game.
You have to jot down your stats after each game.
It's the latter. There are a few APIs available (nothing too official AFAIK) but I wouldn't really know even where to start with those.

It would be awesome if there would be an official RSS based thing, I think Google Sheets has a function that should make possible to import those, and with a few formulas it wouldn't be difficult to automate the data so that the only thing left to do is the data processing itself.

On to the second question: It's not that difficult once you get used to capture the screen during the start and the end of each match, then, at the end of the session you just write down the data into the sheet.
You might want to check out OverTrack if you prefer automation.
One of the first things I tried while doing this was using Google Forms in order to make easier to input the data (be it from a PC or from your smartphone), however, Forms work in a strange way in Google Sheets, every new submition is a new row, so if you had formulas or references to the sheet they would not work because they were linked to the old row, not the new one created with the data.
The Overwatch team is just weird sometimes. Every other Blizzard game has much better support for this kind of stuff.
1.  AFAIK, nope. Iterative calculation should be turned on by default, as the template already has it.

2.  MasterDex's one got that thingy. I considered it once, however, as the placement of elements in this Sheet is different to others (full width) there isn't too much space to put things. I ended up placing some widgets on top, it shouldn't be to difficult to change one of them to that. 

———

Edit

—

Replace the text in cell AL1 (or any widget you don't find useful) with this and it should calculate how much SR points are needed to get to the next rank.

    =IF(AM1=0;"";IF(AM1<ASSETS_RANKS!A5;AM1-ASSETS_RANKS!A5;IF(AM1<ASSETS_RANKS!A6;AM1-ASSETS_RANKS!A6;IF(AM1<ASSETS_RANKS!A7;AM1-ASSETS_RANKS!A7;IF(AM1<ASSETS_RANKS!A8;AM1-ASSETS_RANKS!A8;IF(AM1<ASSETS_RANKS!A9;AM1-ASSETS_RANKS!A9;IF(AM1<ASSETS_RANKS!A10;AM1-ASSETS_RANKS!A10;IF(AM1<ASSETS_RANKS!A11;AM1-ASSETS_RANKS!A11;IF(AM1<ASSETS_RANKS!A12;AM1-ASSETS_RANKS!A12;"")))))))))
I'll publish it on the sub and I'll update this entry to acknowledge it probably.

Something should come out of the data from the match and the heroes/maps (Deaths, Kills, Heals and Damage). I just need to think how to make a data connection (?) that's useful to the user.
Yep. Thanks! It's fixed now.
Nope. 
Hi! It says Lun because of my locale settings for Google Docs (spanish), however, if your settings are in english it should display the days in english.

In any case, the full date is stored on the column A, which is hidden mainly for aesthetic purposes.
That's pretty much how I will feel going into this. SoloQing, may not be as bad since I can take the time (Unless I get really tilted and exit out just as the POTG rolls out). Yet while on a group with 2+ people! there is bound that the group leader would be tilted and exit the group when the POTG comes live.
It's something to get used to, play a game, make sure to remember to capture the screen at the start of each match to get the average SR per team, play the game, see the numbers, Ctrl+Tab, write them down, Ctrl+Tab, recheck them, Ctrl+Tab, write them down.

However, at the end of the day you will start getting some useful insights: for example, finding that Watchpoint: Gibraltar is a map in which you  have 21% WR, or that you have won more times Oasis when you played as support instead of tank. 
Click File > Make a copy to get your own version. It should save it to your Google Drive account.
Last column on the right is "Notes". The header is a little to the left to make some space up there for the widgets. 
It refers to the average SR per team that is displayed at the start of each match.
Group Size :B I needed it to fit in a 32px wide column, sorry. 
Yeah. The only thing to remember is to change the first SR.
I really didn't think about those. Sorry.
I used to track some stuff with OverBuff and MasterOverwatch, however, those tools not only don't show all the data I want, which really isn't that hard to get when you log your own data.
What data do you need to update this sheet specifically? I could perhaps give you some pointers on how to make it automatic if the data is available somewhere or write it. 

EDIT: Found out that currently there is no OW API, that is fucking annoying. I guess there is no other easy way than to manually enter the data.

EDIT2: But maybe something is coming soon, there is discussions about it on the forums. https://us.battle.net/forums/en/bnet/topic/20744814532?page=3#post-42

If they add it then feel free to PM me and I will help you setting something up. :)
I found the exact same problem, tried my best to cut down the workload for entering, but ended up with a very similar proposition.
You are awesome! Thank you!
Great. Post is saved, so I'll watch here for updates :-). Thanks again!
i can save it to my Account but if i open it its still in "read only" mode, how can i use the sheet? cant put in numbers
Thanks! That would be great if they choose to make it happen. 
You can get so far using the INDIRECT formula to sort that sh#t out, but still, not a good experience. Furthermore, that will make the combination of other formulas hard AF, so…

I've Played Mercy for 57 hours but I'm having problems with two key issues...
Positioning and knowing when to let someone go. I have a tendency to overextend as mercy and attempt to save teammates who are extremely low on health or under-fire that I can't out heal. After flying in and trying in vain, I just end up dying too and feeding the enemy.

I'm not a mercy who pockets, I want to heal all my teammates as much as I can. Majority of the time Lucio's healing just isn't enough sustain (though I should note that I do play all the supports regularly and not just Mercy.

How can I stop letting myself get killed by trying to do a job that needs two healers? How can I improve on surviving myself and not relying on teammates to stop what their doing and just assist me?

Any advice is most appreciated.

Overbuff Statistics:

Time Spent Dead: 10.07% (is this good?)
Healing Done: 2,711,071 (14,269 average)
This might be a non issue(as in you already do this) but when you fly to them the moment your beam attaches cancel your flight. They should(hopefully) be trying to retreat as well, so you're just trying to give them a little more HP to do so. In which case I immediately would turn around and look for my next flight target. 

As well as AD strafing. 

Edit: when you turn around leave your beam attached to them for a bit longer. 
Hi there! I have over 150 hours on Mercy. Went from bronze to almost diamond in one season playing only her, so I feel like I might have decent insight to your problem as I used to do the same thing. 


For me at least, it's a triage system. If you have a genji who is over extended and is low on health and isn't attempting to retreat, I usually at that point just let them go. However, if you have a DVA/Winston who is pretty far forward, but is within distance, I usually try and use communication to tell them to back up to get some heals before they go gung ho into the fight. I NEVER follow a charging rein UNLESS my team is doing a cohesive push, or if he's charging a short distance where I'll be able to escape quickly. 


The key thing about playing Mercy is the fact that you are more of a help to your team alive than dead, so if you're faced with the choice of following a squishy DPS out into enemy territory or staying back with the teammates who can provide adequate support, you should stay back. 


When it comes to positioning, try to stay back as far as you can (I recommend staying at the end of how far your beam can reach). Use GA to fly in and out of battle (and from teammate to teammate) when people get low, but don't just hangout around the team fight, you're more likely to get punished that way. 


Also triaging your healing. I know you said that you want to heal all of your teammates, but you have to triage in order to determine who needs to be healed first, and who can go a little bit longer while you heal others up. (i.e. if you have a rein who is low BUT has his full shield and isn't getting wrecked right then and there and you have a secondary healer who is low and a couple of DPS who are low, I usually triage the healer first, then I'll heal the rein up a bit just so I know he isn't going to randomly get picked, then I'll heal up the DPS as that doesn't take long, then I'll go back to healing the Rein). Deciding who needs heals when takes some practice, and at times gets reallllly tricky especially when you have a few people who are low, but with practice, you'll be able to figure out who needs health when. 


I seriously cannot tell you enough how important GA is, staying back and using the dps spread out around the map to GA to will really help your positioning and will help you learn where your escape routes are in case you get flanked. It also makes you much tougher to hit when you are flying around erratically and healing versus just standing there healing 
>  I have a tendency to overextend as mercy and attempt to save teammates who are extremely low on health or under-fire that I can't out heal. After flying in and trying in vain, I just end up dying too and feeding the enemy.

I've been recording my games lately and noticed a few things relating to this!

Basically, I am willing to overextend SOMEWHAT for my allies but have a limit. A few times, I'll note whether there are teammates behind me or close by that are an available fly route, so if I need to get out of there (because the dude I overextended for died, for example) quickly, I can do so. If however, I'd be stuck on my own if that person died, then it might be best to just leave em.


Another technique I love is flying to someone, cancelling GA before I reach there and hitting S so I'm in range to heal but at a good distance where I can use the map/props around me for help
I only overextend if the heal target has some means of damage mitigation or movement abilities I can use to follow back to safety.  Otherwise if I know I can't make it to the target and heal and then find cover within 2 seconds, when enemies are present, I let them go.  Me dying just to heal them teaches them they don't have to worry about their position.

Otherwise I keep flying around so it's hard to get a bead on me, and if they do my autoheal kicks in a lot.  Some people don't prioritize a target that's attacking you even though it means their healbot goes bye bye, so I will aggressively use teammates as a meat shield, running through them so the bullets hit them and grabs their attention.  Some don't even notice since the support callouts activate at the slightest tickle.

Keep as far back as your can.  Your beam is quite long and heals the same no matter how close you are.  It's been the difference many times in whether or not I get caught in a graviton or Halt!

And in dire situations I will guardian angel to a soul with me having no ult or no intention to ult, just because it's far away.  Also anyone on high ground because verticle movement adds a ton to your survivability. 
Do you have toggle beam on?  Also Change guardian angel auto fly, so you can cancel it mid flight, say to stop near cover.
You have to be able to adapt your style to the flow of the game if you want to improve with mercy. If your genji over extends while you are trying to heal up everyone else in a fight, you gotta let him die, especially if trying to heal him puts you in direct risk. It sounds a bit weird, but when you have revive you not dying becomes your teams absolute highest priority most of the time. People rant so much about how mercy is useless without her revive, but in an extended fight, her healing beam can single handedly turn the tide of a fight  if left unchecked. Dying as a healer cripples your team so severely, that learning to let go when someone is in a bad spot about to die is just a part of playing mercy.

What ultimates can you hide behind Road for cover?
I know Dva bomb, Junkrat tire, Doomfist ult can't be body blocked but what about Reaper and Mccree? Is it worth it just standing behind Roadhog when Genji ults since to hit you with dash he would then have to Dash through Road assuming he isn't in the air giving Road easier time hooking?afaik teammates don't break LOS, so you wouldn't be safe hiding behind hog. The only teammate you can hide behind (and will even save you from a d.va bomb) is a bubbled zarya.

In any case, genji can hit multiple targets with a single slash during his ult, so if you stick together with a teammate there's the chance he'll get both of you at the same time.
I've read that you can body block a D'Va Ult when you are ulting as Zen. (Transcendence)

I've never done it successfully nor have I seen a video of it working.  I'm sure that if its possible its not easy. 
Roadhog cannot body-block an ultimate, the only time he could would be if he got a Zarya bubble and you stand behind him, but Zarya's bubble won't help against a Reaper ult for example.
Giving it some thought, you might be safe standing behind Road for McCree, Pharah, Soldier, Bastion, Torb, Roadhog, and Ana (allied). This is all assuming the ult doesn't kill him and you are far enough back to avoid splash damage.


As others have said, he doesn't technically block LOS but he does have a big hitbox and can block projectiles with his belly.
I could be wrong on this, but I believe that you can also just use Sindragosa strats behind Mei. Her ice block provides coverage so you may LoS stuff like D.Va bomb or High Noon. 
It would be awesome if Roadhog had a passive that made his body block LOS.
Correct it acts like bubble

How do I know if I'm doing a good job with Roadhog
I want to start playing hog but dont knoe if im doing my job well

What stats or indications would you use to know you're doing well and don't need to switch to another tank

I usually play Zen and soldier 

With Zen i look at healing stats, elims (which ate usually quite high) and how many times I cock blocked an ulting genji or soldier with transcendence

Soldier i look at plain elims and if I am stopping the pharah play 

With hog I still try to shutdown enemy ults with my hook and hook enemies away from low allies 
I think if I'm taking damage, so the opponents aren't targeting my dps and I'm surviving is another indication 

I'm just not used to having such low elims as I have with hog, I'll barely get bronze, maybe silver in a every 5-10 games

I know you shouldn't obsess with elims, I'm just so used to having gold or silver every game with Zen or soldier To me, if you're landing at least 60% of your hooks, you're doing fine. That's enough for you to be a presence and if you're landing your hooks then you team should be 100% capitalizing on them. I call out whenever I get a hook so my teammates know to look towards me and help me take down the pick.
60%? That's ELITE. That's Harbleu territory. Anything above 50% is very good. 

Edit: I get what you all are saying about relative SR and how it's easier to hook at low ranks. THAT SAID, on Overbuff, 59% hook accuracy is the 98th percentile! Say what you will about Overbuff, but there's no denying that stat. As I said originally, 60% is elite, no matter what rank you are. 
To be fair, the percentage should be interpretred with the context of the SR group. 60% accuracy when your opponents are moving in bronze level straight predictable lines is not the same as when they have GM rank evasive movement
It depends. In season 4, I had a 60% hook accuracy. But Harb's level and my season 4 lvl are completely different. In season 4, I was low plat, so in my level, where movement is really predictable, getting a 60% hook accuracy is easy. In Harbleu's level, getting a 60% hook accuracy is hard, as his enemies know how to strafe and dodge hooks. 
One note, the higher rank you are the better your opponents will be. Harbleu is playing against people who know how to deal with Roadhog and know how to dodge the hook. That makes landing hooks much tougher for him.

Lower ranks you're not unlikely to have a higher hook percentage because people position poorly. The question is do you capitalize on these hooks well?
:') 
I for one absolutely love the new hog, I'm sitting at 57.5% hook accuracy after 4 games so far with him, haven't lost yet playing him, I hope I can keep it up. Top 7%!
Sorry, I didn't realize 60% would be considered elite level. I'm a Roadhog main so I try to consistently get 60% or higher. Maybe it doesn't even matter what the percentage is. As long as you're getting a ton of hooks and picks.
Just a quick question, with hook being a projectile if i feel i have to jump to hook a pharah do you aim just above her head? Because you're falling from the jump
Does that make sense? Or am I wrong 
I think I need to talk to my team more by the sound of it, I kill a soldier everytime solo. Must be his hitbox but I struggle to kill others before they get away. 
Thanks, I did feel I was doing a good job earlier but wasn't on fire. Almost every game with Zen or soldier I am on fire for periods.
I guess it's easier to get spam elims and healing from transcendence with them. You can pick at multiple targets with them 2, so even if you don't finish the kill I feel you get high elims because someone else finishes them off.
Actually it varies a lot from game to game and with your play style.  Sure I could hook D.Va all day and land 95%.  Or I could go after the back line and get less.  Or try to hook the enemy flankers, very situational.  Are there lots of barriers? Is your team rolling on offense? Is it KOTH? Are they trying to counter you?
Just aim directly at her, you should be fine. Also, if you feel the need to jump to hook a Pharah, she may be too far to hook anyways? I don't think I've ever thought of a situation where I jumped to hook a Pharah.
This is a good point. Sorry, at work right now and didn't think of all the factors. It definitely depends on your playstyle as Roadhog. Typically, I try to play aggressive and catch out DPS/Supports but will switch to watch for flankers if the team needs. I will average 50-60 if I'm watching for flankers, but I do my best to strive for 60% and higher if I'm trying to pick out their DPS or support.

Flick Shot mechanics/ advanced detail needed
basically, what i want to know is, Why do flick aimers flick their crosshair away from their target between shots?

This is pretty much for Mccree mainly, but also widow.

people all know about flick shooting, but no one can explain WHY a certain technique is done. I watch Aimbot calvin, surefour, iddq, etc and they all do micro flicks to the target and then off. I want to know, why does one start off the target, then flick onto it, then back off. 

I practice flicking to the target, and then flicking to the next target locaion, and repeat. I do not flick off the target in between each shot. basically, im just moving my crosshair to the target,  for each shot, with no movement of the mouse after the shot. 

how would you compare:
1.move to target shoot, keep mouse still, repeat
2.move to target shoot, flick off target, repeat
or even:
3. move to target shoot, track target during reset time for weapon, repeat.

I want to know, what the hell is the reason for flicking off. I have heard that it is to "reset your hand position" i dont really get, because how do you keep the crosshairs near the target then? Others say, its easier because when you flick Back, it gradually slows down your hand for the time you need to shoot the target (which all happens at very high speeds, but still contributes to the placement for the actual shot. when i see pros do it, its super quick, lightning fast action. I can imagine the flick back, as being a sort of "Follow Through" for the muscles... but the main action is still pointing straight at the target and clicking. whether or not the preceding action is to flick off or to stop completely on the target, i dont see why flicking off aids any benefit. resetting the hand means you could be flicking off the target in a direction that is excessively far from the target, making the next shot more difficult.

for me, these are 2 VERY different methods and it should be analyzed, i simply want to understand the science to it. 

very confused. I want to know the exact reason, scientifically proven. anyone?

I wanna shoot like the pros, and UNDERSTAND it!Actual flicking involves timing more than anything. It's your crosshairs passing over a target and pulling the trigger as your crosshairs are over the target even though your aim continues. It happens to be more comfortable to have your continued motion come back to it's starting position rather than continue past and stopping at a point further past the target opposite the direction you started. So there is a degree of "resetting" your hand position back to it's comfortable [resting] position. It's just one fluid motion rather than a flick in one direction then a flick back in the opposite direction. 

There's also a degree of keeping your cross hairs off the target so you can more easily see the target. If you look at other high level players who track aim as apposed to flick aim (high level Tracer or Soldier players) you'll see the same kind of quick reaction and "flick" aim to the target but they do stay on target instead of pulling back off. They're not as concerned with landing very specific head shot hits. They're more concerned with landing the majority of their shots on the target. They do, however, have a specific point on the body they like to aim for to maximize hitting as many head shots as possible, but the larger concern is landing as many bullets as possible. They're also, generally, much closer to their target so their crosshairs, no matter how big or small, don't obstruct their view as bad.

Some people like to micro flick so they more or less track near their target and make small flicks to hit their target (I do this myself). Other's don't worry about tracking even in the slightest and strictly flick so they'll have much larger flicks, in general. When you see the larger flicks you may notice they don't always come right back to where they were. They usually rest a shorter distance from their target than where they started. This, again, is more of a one fluid motion that happens to return in the same direction as it began rather than moving past the target.

Flicking is almost like those games at an arcade or pizza place that you can win tickets from that has the light that runs in a circle and you have to press the button at the right time to stop it in a specific spot to win. Your aim is one fluid motion that moves to and away from the target and you pull the trigger at the right moment during it's path to land the hit. 

I don't know if this helps answer your question much. I mean, I don't know how much scientific proof you'll find on the matter as there hasn't been much actual scientific research on gaming techniques.
It's for consistency. You don't know where a moving target will be next, so you need to reset hand position and flick the target again. People don't stand still.
I don't know if you've ever shot guns before, specifically pistols. I was taught for target shooting you want to bring your firearm up to aim towards your target and you should be just about right on target before you're even look down your sights. Then squeeze, shoot, hit. You don't track from target to target with your sights or crosshair, you find it with your eyes and your muscle memory pulls your weapon to the target. 
The same action all applies to video games. 
McCree for example, it's much easier to blast my targets imo when I track the player model primarily and use my crosshairs in tandem with my eyes, rather than trying to keep my crosshair tracked in place like a camera gyroscope  
this does actually help alot. as of now ive been doing technique 1. youve been doing technique 3. (of the methods ive mentioned above).

its like the difference btw taimou and aimbot calvin. calvin does the flick, move off, track, flick. taimou does just large flicks with less tracking.

im starting to undertnad more and more the importance of the flick off/resetting of the hand for after the shot. 
so if i dont flick off the target in between shots, im compromising hand position from shot to shot? ..so im assuming that the spot you flick off to will be different each time, because in essence you are tracking the target while doing so?

example: pharah flies from bottom left hand of screen to top right. you dont flick back to the center of the screen after each shot, you flick slightly off to either left or right (preferably to the right because she is flying up and right).. is this correct?


I think OP is talking about when you flick to the enemy and if they move you just flick from that location to their new location as apposed to resetting your aim.
i like the anology, its the flick OFF that im asking about. 
I flick from one target to the next.
MOST PEOPLE, flick from one target, then off the target, then back on to the target.

make sense?
Some people do short, micro flicks while other people do long flicks. Pulling back to the right or left after a shot depends on your starting position. If you flick to the right then you'll pull back to the left and vice versa. 

Even with a large mouse pad you still only have a finite amount of space to work with. You don't want to keep pushing your aim further and further in one direction. The idea is to kind of keep your mouse in the center of the pad and flick around from there with everything resetting back in the middle. This way you never run out of space. But that's only one, small part of why people flick like they do.

Depending on the style of flicking a person does they're like to reset to a close'ish distance to where they started. This is much more defined in micro flicks than in larger flicks. So pulling back [resetting] gives you space to continue to utilize the muscle memory that you've trained.
no im talking about those who flick on and off their targets, VS those who just flick ON to targets and leave it there VS those who flick, track, flick
ok starting to make sense.

VOD: Plat Mcree/Tracer Route 66, looking for help
Hey everyone, I've been lurking for a while and I really appreciate all the work people put into this site.

I had a pretty entertaining game in plat that I'd love people to review/give me tips on.

As for me, I broke a hundred points into diamond last season and then fell back into plat, but I've made it my goal to make it into master's this season.

I'm open to any and all criticism, and greatly appreciate it! I have my own interpretation of my mistakes in the game, but obviously I am more interested in what you all have to say.

[link to vod on youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-zfJwQFvxVE&t=4s)you go too close. 

you're always in 5-10 meters when you would prefer anywhere from 17-25 meters. 

the  3 main reasons for this is, you have a bad habit by holding W and just putting yourself in awful positions when you're shooting. 

the second reason is because you're not trying to be in good initial positions. you're literally always in the middle of your team. 

third- you tunnel hard

You don't take high ground and you tunnel vision your targets rather than paying much attention to your position. 

~~~~~

I believe your aim is not too bad, but your position is really hurting your aiming consistency 

I also personally think you should add a bit more tracking into your aim. Track then flick. This tip may be not too great because you only have a 60Hz monitor so the game is very choppy. 

~~~~

Lets break down the vod to show you where you're positioning is holding your aim back. You miss position frequently which gets you killed, but I am only focusing on the parts where your movement kills your aiming ability. The key to look for is when you get closer than 10 meters from your target because you're holding W

3:51 - look how close you get to lucio. You get within melee range at 3:59, then you walk under him at 4:01. Idk about you, but this angle for me is harder to shoot than just looking at a target straight on. It isn't so bad but you're making your shot harder than it needs to be. 

5:45 - look at that crazy lucio movement. Also you run yourself directly into the face of Dva because you're tunneling on Lucio. I personally have less consistency when targets are flying all around my screen. It really makes it difficult to aim because I'm flicking the across my entire monitor just to keep up. 

5:49 - look how close you get to Ana. Holy crap how can you possibly hit that target consistently? You're doing screen wide flicks. Lets count your shots hit and missed. you shot 7 times, only hit 2 times and one shot is after a flashbang.

7:48  - you get so close here.  You try to get a target by sacrificing your position. You're within 10 meters of most targets. 

9:18 - you hide from Dva bomb, but then you stay super close because you don't actively adjust your position. 9:22  look at that cluster fuck. you're getting jump scared and there is no way you can actually aim this close. 

10:04 - YEAH double headshot the genji, now you have a good position. with one flanker dead, you can sit in the back and lob shots into people's faces. 10:06 melee range Dva. 10:08 oh look at ana how do you aim that close?  after you kill ana look where Dva is.  10:17 look how close you get to baby Dva and forget about the winston that just drove your back line. You get so close you melee baby dva. 

10:27 - You're under Genji. Get distance, get space. Allow yourself to aim. 

targets are literally going from one side of your screen to the other. McCree is about precision. How can you hit a single point ( the head ) when you are forced to flick cross screen? I couldn't do it. 

13:14 - you do pretty well this fight, but you need to see how close you get to targets. You're always within 5-10 meters of your targets. You could push left side up the hill get distance and high ground but you just push forward on low ground. 

13:30 - look at the position you're in. You have lucio in front, genji on high ground on your right and Phara raining rockets in between them. You're constantly switching targets trying to fight for your life because your habit pushed you dead center of the fight.

13:59 - you get close enough to get zapped by Winston. 

14:37 - you get so close you're looking at a trashcan. 

19:03 - if you pause here. Look how scary that is.  you put yourself into melee range of Reaper because you tunnel on Lucio, getting within 5 meters then when you look around you get enough jump scare with 3 people in your face. 

19:22 - your team was telling you to push, but you can still push get keep a safe distance. Look at how close is ana before you die. You put yourself under the reaper because you're on cart. 

20:18 - you're in melee range agian. If you didn't have ult there, im sure it would have been difficult for you to shoot ana or lucio.  Plus you're in 1 shot territory vs reaper 

21:41 - you can't track that close. To make the point, you empty your clip and melee attack into the air because there is no way you can actually aim at that distance. 

21:47 - you went around the world trying to hit lucio. 

22:05 - you push so close you run under ana 

your team is on cart. you don't need to be so close. 

22:18 - your position gets you killed by reaper ult. 

~~~

you jump before you look. You're always jumping into the unknown and end up with 2-4 people in your face. You just have 2 thoughts when you play. 

1. Walk forward till I see a target and 2. Once found, tunnel on that target. 
Will edit this comment when i get home with a review. 
Im probably the last person who should be critiquing your play but I'd just like to say that sequence at the end of the first game was very nice
practice to aim. :P ;) 
i play plat myself. i think your positioning is better then mine and also your skill usage. but if you get moveing people killed in a few seconds instead of 20 sec. of time trying to kill them before they hide, you will push quite fast i think.
Wow thanks. That was really helpful.
Welp this guy basically said 90% of what I wanted

I've been playing this game for two months and CSGO for a year and my aim has improved very minimally.
I am Silver 4 in CSGO and 2000 SR in OW. I started playing aim training maps in csgo every day for at least 20 minutes about 6 months ago. I've also been playing an hour every day of either OW or CS. This is my aim.

https://youtu.be/YzCwqEE-LS4

I've been doing everything those guides say and I'm still utter dog shit. I've got a 1.43 sensitivity with 1600 DPI and a 45 x 40 cm mousepad and a Razer Deathadder Chroma.

Please help me!
Thanks

Edit: fixed broken linkI have the same DPI but 2.7 sensitivity. It works best for me.  Your eDPI is 2,228 (1.43 x 1600) and that is too low for most players. 

Here is a website that shows the DPI and sensitivity settings for pro Overwatch players which is a good general reference:

http://on-winning.com/overwatch-pro-sensitivity-settings-setups-monitor-mouse-keyboard-headset/

If you change your mouse settings drastically give yourself a few days to adjust. 
aim in overwatch wont get you that far. aim is like 1/4 of what makes one good. positioning and awarness make up the other 3/4. so you should fix those and focus less on aim training.
Only a year dude don't worry about it.  Believe it or not I started in gold and worked my way to masters this past season and I had been playing cs for almost 15 years.  You can be successful in ow without great aim, but I was the opposite...good aim and no success in ow.  You'll hear it from everybody.  Watch your own videos and review.  Minimize your mistakes.  Practice practice practice.  Watch top streamers and the list goes on.  The easiest and true method of getting better is time.  Some people aren't happy with their progress after a year others each month.  Online games are just like anything you pickup.  You can learn how to play chess rather quickly and still suck ass for a decade while somebody else is phenomenal in weeks.  The aim drills, the sensitivity calculator is all fun and dandy, but honestly emulating top players play styles and creating your own style to match your abilities worked best for me.  
Do you have any VODs of your gameplay in OW? Training your aim without moving is just one part of the puzzle and seeing how you're playing in-game will help us get a sense of what the problems may be.

Also, aim is something that can always be improved upon so don't think you have to or should stop aim drills.
1 year of CS:GO don't make you a good aimer. I played CS for years and I was Global Elite in CS:GO for 2-3 Months. 

As Overwatch came out I realized that my gamesense is ~3.5 SR (general FPS skills like overview etc.) and my aim is bronze. 

After 1 year of practice in Overwatch my aim increased a lot.
The difference to CS:GO is that you don't need to wait when you move. So the synch between shooting and moving made my CS:GO aim good. But not in Overwatch.

In CS:GO you aim for small parts of a second because of movement (more flicking) and in Overwatch you need that scanning. Scanning is not used in CS:GO very much and is not needed.

To practise your hitscan you can play heroes like cree or soldier. Just scan the shit out of your enemies and don't care about how you move while shooting. 
My muscle memories always tried to shoot when I don't move while adad-ing. That was the hardest part to stopp this.
And for the first don't try to do much headshots. Most of them Hanzos trying to hard and don't hit anything but only 2 bodyshots needed for a 200hp kill. 


Don't do guides, don't use pro tips and pro settings. Sometimes it makes things worse.

When you're stuck, go back to basics. Pick a random setting, pick a hero and do steady shots against steady targets. Even it's boring and really easy, do it. Then you speed things up step by step. Only increase the difficulty if you make a perfect score, land every single shot. You miss? that mean you don't have it yet. What you need is to get rid of bad habits, to build better basic skill to sustain a more advance skill. 

If you do all that over and over, you'll probably find YOUR setting, YOUR feeling and can go back in comp again.

Did it, don't regret it. Boring? yes! But effective.
The muscle memory for aiming in OW are different compared to aiming in CS:GO. If you want to aim better in OW, you have to practise aiming in OW.
Aiming in csgo is very different from aiming with most chatacters in overwatch. In overwatch, characters move much faster and have larger hitboxes, so tracking them across your screen is very important while in csgo, crosshair placement and flicking are much more important. 

Also you are aiming a little slow in the video. You want to flick to it as fast as possible.
The best way to use a good sensitivity is to adjust sensitivity to 360/cm.

360/cm is the cm you need to move the mouse to make a 360 with the character, and the cm should be your mousepad size. 

this tool https://jscalc.io/calc/IeBnNvGDKUIIPRmR help you  to calculate your ingame sensitivity based on your mousepad size and dpi.
20 minutes on those maps isnt "practice". You are barely warmed up after 20 minutes. Same with the 1 hour a day. I dont disagree with what the others are saying, but you simply dont play enough to improve your aim. You could play for 5 years with this schedule and your aim will only get marginably better. Im sorry but thats the truth, you need to keep mind mind that the average amount of time people invest when they want to climb js between 20 and 25 hours a week. You wont be able to hold up let alone overtake them with 7 hours.

-ioStux
I've just been watching this video and it reminded me about your post https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2gtRDCEkBQk
One thing to be aware of, that could be hindering you, is that sensitivity across games is not universal. 1.43 sensitivity in OW is not the same as 1.43 in CSGO. Your DPI is regulated by your mouse and/or mouse software outside of the game so that part does translate, but the in game sens will be different. This can make it difficult to train your muscle memory since it's trying to be familiar with different effective sensitivities.

I don't remember the website off the top of my head and I never saved it because it wasn't relevant to me but there is a site someone designed that does the math for you when figuring out your sensitivity across games. You can plug in your sens from one game and it'll output the sens equivalent in other games.

You may have already done this too, I don't know, but I figured it was worth mentioning at least.
It could be your setup, or how you sit/ move your arm, maybe how you hold your mouse... is your mouse broken/consistant?

Add me in-game and if I can get on I'll put u in a warm-up I use and record you. I might be able to see how you can I'm prove 

TheLaw#12722
Either lower sensitivity or use WASD keys to adjust your aiming.
Picking hitscan only characters might help too.
Don't practice com aim maps, use them to warm up, go to boomeo and practice on 1v1 duels. Cs go is all about aim placement, know the angles and things like that, if you don't know those things, practice your aim doesn't matter that much.

On OW is way easier too hit the target (since your shots go right on then crosshairs, even if you are moving), but the targets go in all directions and have  a lot of different hit boxes), as someone who play both games, diamond on OW and use to be semi pro on 1.6, just starting to play csgo, I think you shouldn't play both games right after another, specially cego right after playing ow.
I have a large mousepad

Also here's the video:

https://youtu.be/YzCwqEE-LS4
So should I just not care about aim drills for anything but warmup?
https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL9TkySb4FYbiB4YWx5HvgWo_b0uezToYB

This is a playlist of some of my matches. Shadowplay stopped working recently so I didn't get many if any games as my current main, Reaper. 
Just watched a video (D.Va). You should watch some pros that explain some stuff like Seagull. That really helped me to find my errors in gamesense. 

You are trying to hard to carry as D.Va I think. Your job is to dive (better do this together with a flanker) or to protect your team from incoming heavy damage (don't hold matrix the whole time).

That's a thing you can change every 10-20 seconds. Going behind enemy -> going to team.
Like mercy can fly between teammates that are offensive, center or defensive D.Va can use this tactic to damage the enemy and help your team to survive.
I can do a 180 degrees on 45 cm. 
Yeah I did the site. I don't think it's 100% accurate because of the fov differences
I'll add you when I get home
I'm not familiar with CSGO but your eDPI is likely too low for you even if you use a large mouse pad - which most pros do. Your video focuses on flick aiming but some Overwatch heroes also require tracking aim (i.e. Soldier, Tracer and D.Va). 

You can also try slowly increasing your sensitivity by 0.2 or 0.3 each day and assess how your accuracy is improving. 
Looking at a few clips throughout this I notice a few things

1. You can aim

2. As you get closer to your target your aim slows down

3. You hover over your target longer than I think you should 

Regarding 2&3, when you are moving, or the enemy is moving too, this will cause you to miss alot of shots (I think).

You seem to have a somewhat comfortable aim setup, now id recommend you to practice on more moving targets, you may need to work on your flicks

Fighting moving targets not only are you aiming but you are actually predicting where the enemy will be. For hitscan the prediction is much shorter compared to projectile like pharah. If you can flick super fast, then you could aim super fast. But this really is a few steps ahead of where you are. If your flick is fast then slows down a bit I think you will need to read into the predicting where the enemy is going more. One thing I do notice when I feel I'm on fire with hitscan is that I don't do the slowing down aim, I keep it super fast but If I go over the target I jerk back, to an outsider it might look like random jiggles side to side around the target but it's really just a fast aim with fast corrections

Hope this insight helps  
your aiming way too slow, speed up your aiming and that may help you get better
You should do what works for you, not copy pros
Yes especially if you feel your aim isn't gaining much from it, but that is my opinion.  For cs aim maps were a big part of getting better.  Ow is very different and I feel like playing the game and learning from each game will do more for you in the long run.  You are still a baby in the timeline of playing fps games.  Don't worry so much, enjoy, have fun and you will get better.  I'm old ish and my aim will probably only decline from here, but there's other ways to get better.  I was a pretty dumb ow player s1-2 and climbed from just understanding the game better.  
Just a couple notes on the very first video.
Try to stay as positive as you can. I get a lot done when I tell people what I'm able to do effectively. I know for a fact I can solo tank, but absolutely cannot solo heal. When I say this, I almost always get positive reactions from my team. I know that's not what you were asking in the post, but I know how frustrating it can get when I'm the only cooperative member on a team.
Now, as far as aiming went in that one (what you were actually asking about), your horizontal tracking is fine, but your vertical is a bit sluggish. So just periodically move your mouse over the entire surface of your mouse pad to remember how much room you have, and focus on your aiming. I know it sounds dumb, but when you concentrate on it rather than autopilot, things tend to slow down a lot and it gets easier. Callouts can be really simple (just repeat the name of a target over and over if you need to) so that your mind can focus on whatever you're working on(in this case, aim).
Again, this is based off of round one of your first video, but try is out and see how you feel. 
So to start off, when you practice on the aim map in cs go for precision not speed especially when you practice on the intensive fast aiming mode. You're actually just building bad habits when you're trying to go too fast and missing. You should be trying to hit every shot you're taking when practicing. Speed comes with time and comfort, don't force it from the beginning.

Second, you might want to practicing your tracking in DM by playing S76. Don't worry about winning the game mode, just focus on how well you are able to track enemies. Your practice on the aim map in cs will help with your flick aim and general muscle memory for distances, but it doesn't help you with your ability to track a target. 

Third, what is probably holding you back from climbing isn't your aim; it's your game sense. From what I've watched of your VOD is that your decision making is equivalent with your current SR. And if you want to climb the ratings, you want to be better than the players you're playing against. If you haven't been watching pros play on stream, I would suggest that you do that and ask yourself "Why are they doing what they're doing?", "What are they trying to achieve?". Seagull typically does a really good job of explaining his thought process behind his plays, so take notes and try to emulate.
wow that too much.

in CSGO usually pro plays with a 30-60 cm/360, almost every body plays at 400dpi/6 or 800dpi/6.
in OW pro player usually plays between 13-60, and the playing with biggest 360/cm is ryujehong who playu at 74cm.

try lowering a little every day and look if you get better. :)

Good luck!!
What do you mean by hovering over targets?
I've tried going faster and I miss all my shots. As it is I still don't have the beat accuracy. 
He wants to get better dude.  If you're failing a class you can try to figure it out or get a tutor.  We can all agree which one is more effective and faster I think.  Emulating top talent gets results.  Do you know how many supports in your games are better players because they watched gale, stanky, evee etc... I think a lot of times they're trying to copy them and it's making my life easier :) 
The more in-depth stuff.
   

The first thing I noticed was that you play overtly aggressively, and not with your team. This causes you to die a lot to spam or getting picked before an actual team fight. Dying in OW is a huge detriment because of how important team fights are. OW isn't like CS where you can try to get an entry pick to open up a site (unless you're playing a pick class like widow or hanzo), it's about engaging together with your team and focusing enemy players down in a giant fight (like the fight your team won in order to capture the 1st point). 

~

Thus I would like to see you play BEHIND your tanks and with your team (not flanking or playing in front of your tanks). This does a number of things:

1. Provide a safety net from spam (D.VA matrix, Winston Bubble)
2. Allows your tanks to create space for you to work with (Winston jumps enemy team, drops bubble, enemy team turns to focus him down, AKA junkrat is busy trying to kill the giant monkey thus you can shoot at things without being pressured)
1. Your supports can actually support you instead of you relying on your self-heal or health packs.
1. You can all shoot the same target! Yay, enemies die faster! (Seriously, shoot the same damn targets and communicate that if you need to)

**2:16** - You see 3 of your teammates die and STILL decided that walking up that stairs (WITH A JUNKRAT SPAMMING IT) was a good idea. Yes, you didn’t die, but that’s the kind of decision-making that causes a stagger in deaths and losses.

**2:30 to 2:45** - Example of poking without a tank versus poking with a tank. If you have D.Va there with you holding right click, you’re free to spam without worrying about damage. If you don’t, you’re open to discord and spam (AKA potential death and stagger). 

**2:50** - Example of flanking versus pushing with your team. In general for lower level players, I want to see them excel in teamplay because working together is OP. In this particular case, instead of playing with the tracer I would have liked to see you play behind the rest of your team coming from the right side. At higher levels, teams would have capitalized on knowing that both the enemy team’s DPS were on one side and isolated from the rest of their team.

**5:30** - Again, you’re down numbers and playing right into junkrat’s hand. What does junkrat excel at? Spamming chokes. What do you need to do? Not stand in the chokes without a tank in front of you. All his nades were telegraphed to the same spot, you can easily not play on the stairs.

**13:30** - This is what I call unnecessary poke. You already have ult, you’re feeding the enemy supports ult, you have no tank support, and you are probably not going to get a kill. Unnecessary danger with a chance of becoming the entry pick for little to no reward. 

~

The second thing I noticed was that you don’t pay attention to your teammate’s deaths, surroundings and ult management. This is when things start to get tricky because if you’re so focused on aiming, you lose track of all these other important factors. A lot of your deaths and bad decision-making are easily preventable with a bit more awareness. I think some tips that might help with some of these are:

**Using your ult:**

* Is your team alive?

> Ulting 1 v Enemy team is a HIGH risk and reward and making decisions like that tends to be built off of experience and understanding of the possible outcomes. For right now, I want you try hitting tab or keeping note of how many of your teammates are alive and in the fight before you decide to press that Q button.

* Does the enemy team have a counter?


> If it’s a counter ult, keeping track of it is helpful. This takes time to get a grasp of how fast people build ults and what to expect at certain times. Think about how you can force out a defensive ult that may allow you to win the next fight or right after it ends.

> If it’s a character skill (D.Va matrix) ask yourself how your team can create a situation which is beneficial to you (Taking her out of mech).


**4:35** - This was probably the biggest offender. Your entire team is out of the fight, the enemy zen has tranq, they also have a reinhart that’s still alive, and they have closer spawns than your team.

**7:20** - See how the zen was forced to ult? This is the golden opportunity for you to make a play with your ult, you have the space to work with as long as you remain patient and play the distance to your advantage. S76 excels in being further away from the enemy team.

**9:27** - The zen ulted and you decided to ult out of desperation. So, what could you have done better here? Instead of playing this narrow sight line, why not change your positioning to a better spot like the high ground to your right? 

~

**Audio Cues:**
Enemy footsteps, gun fire, skill uses
You seemed to miss the enemy Reaper a number of times, especially after his really vulnerable teleports (3:15, 6:10).
Practice in DM should help with learning all the audio cues as well as where enemies are in relation to you.

**When to Engage and Disengage:**
Is your team alive?
If yes, play together with them and try to secure kills together. If everyone is off doing their own thing, you can individually decide to make a fight a 2v1 instead of a 1v1. Find one of your tanks and play with them. 
If no, run away and stay alive until the next team push. The amount of staggered deaths in your VOD from both sides is outrageous. Don’t be a part of the problem.

**AKA** hit tab more and make decisions based off of your team. Is my team alive and in the fight? Do we have ults? Do they have ults? Do I have a good position? Can I get to a good position?
        
Not shooting right when your crosshair is over your target. A word of advice; don't overthink your actions. Let your muscle memory do the thing.
People have a misconception of aim on general. Yours is more than fine to get to diamond. Now you aren't a special snow flake here either. Just the other day I met a widow who was insane in deathly hallows on an alt account. I asked him what his actually sr was and he said it was actually 2000. I'm in masters and this widow bodied me. Turns out he's dog shit when playing again other heros and things outside of point n click. He is bad at knowing pacing and bad at other types of duels. Hes just bad at overwatch, not aiming.

Aim is a lot of prediction too. Some of it is reaction but a lot of it can do.ply be done by having good cross hair placement and honesty about your own play. By honesty I mean if you're soldier and shooting people and a genji got your flank maybe it's better to just run instead of trying to mimick sure4. The game is weird. My girlfriend in no way has better "aim" than I do but she can win against me as widow simply because she PLAYS widow. She knows play patterns and people's strafing patterns. She is used to moving her and used to her own aim. She knows how to play the character and get use out of her tools. Honestly she lets her opponents do most of the aim for her while waiting for the perfect moment that the enemy got into her cross hairs. I don't do that for shit and probably should. I always try and aim actively where people are instead of waiting for them. And yet, her aim is more effective with the character than mine. 
https://youtu.be/YzCwqEE-LS4?t=3m52s

You hesitate before shooting alot, on one hand its good, but considering how long it takes compared to a instant flick it really hurts you
then miss all your shots, if day 1 you hit 1/100 and day 2 you hit 2/200, your improving, you wont improve if you aim really slowly, in a real game you wont get that long to hit your shot
Sorry to elaborate, dont blindly copy people. 

Its okay to emulate behaviour to better understand why, but not to become a shadow of somebody.
Stanky for sure opened my eyes to Lucio's true power. 
That's not the best analogy for this application. Your "opponent" in a class is the same for everyone, regardless of their "skill." In OW, your opponents vary in skill so copying what a Pro does will not net you the same kind of results they get because the opponents are very different.

Many Pros and high level streamers will even tell you, "don't copy me," or "don't do this just because I do it, it's bad." It works for them because of their environment and they realize that it's the exception rather than the rule.

It's good to watch and analyze what they do and why they do it. Those kinds of lessons can then be applied similarly in your own environment. But blindly copying the Pros won't necessarily make you better

There are some steps that are universally good to follow and so simply copying will yield some results but you'll eventually hit a wall before you ever reach their level because you don't understand the fundamentals of why they do what they do and instead just copy what you see.

Going back to the analogy, you can copy answers from someone else's test but if they aren't taking the same test you are then you're going to fail.
Video linked by /u/ShitTalkingAssWipe:

Title|Channel|Published|Duration|Likes|Total Views
:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:
[Aim_training_csgo_2 8/30/17](https://youtu.be/YzCwqEE-LS4?t=3m52s)|Communix Gaming|2017-08-31|0:16:28|0+ (0%)|268

---

[^Info](https://np.reddit.com/r/youtubot/wiki/index) ^| [^/u/ShitTalkingAssWipe ^can ^delete](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=_youtubot_&subject=delete\%20comment&message=dmfu1kt\%0A\%0AReason\%3A\%20\%2A\%2Aplease+help+us+improve\%2A\%2A) ^| ^v2.0.0
Okay.

How can I make my flicks more consistent?
but stankys lucio is too agressive and hard to play for most people, grego or dhak have far better fundamentals and timings etc
by doing that flick training and practicing flicks

Aim training and putting that skill into use are 2 different things.

You need to practice when the game is hard. Keep your mind busy like your mind would be when playing the game. You need aim to be an extension of what you're doing, not an active concentrated effort. If youre practicing while you're focused you won't be able to dedicate the same focus in game when a tracer is on you.

When you train your aim next time try and slightly distract yourself. Give yourself something to think about so the aim just does it's thing. Do both types of training though, don't use convert directly to distracted training either. But keep it in mind.

What Mouse/Keyboard should I use?
currently I don't have anything special for gaming; my mouse is the standard mouse that came free with my desktop (i.e. has m1 m2 and scroll wheel only) and the same for my keyboard. Is there any significant benefits in buying/ using gaming mouses/keyboards? eg mouses that have side buttons
Recently I've seen some people post (about ana) how her scope should be rebound to a side mouse button instead of m2 to prevent tension (?) when shooting. since my mouse is already acting up i was wondering if I should invest in a better gaming mouse rather than just going for the cheapest one I can find, and if there are any significant quality of life improvements i gain by using a gaming mouse. thanks!check out rocketjumpninja.com, he has reviews of a lot of mice and really good explanations of what he likes/dislikes about each in his videos
I upgraded many months ago to a Logitech G403 (wired version): https://www.amazon.com/Logitech-910-004796-Prodigy-Gaming-Mouse/dp/B01KUAMCV4

 Its got a "top of the line" (according to Logitech) sensor, up to 1000hz polling rate and customizable DPI up to some ridiculously high number. Other than the specs, the size and shape of the mouse is perfect for my large hands.

 Basically the way i went about choosing a mouse was I looked at what the pros use and chose the one I liked the best. Seagull uses the Logitech G Pro. So i went with the G403. Its the same exact specs as the G Pro, just with a larger and non ambidextrous design. 

 Why did I decide to spend more money on an expensive mouse? Smooth tracking/aim and no pixel skipping. IMO the difference between a fancy top of the line mouse and a basic shit tier mouse is night and day. 

 I also recommend buying a super big mousepad to go with a new mouse. I use 1600 dpi and 2.77 in game sens. My aim is super silky smooth and precise. Here's a link to my 18 x 16 inch mousepad that i love: https://www.amazon.com/Glorious-Extended-Gaming-Mouse-Mat/dp/B00NOD04CY?th=1

  As for keyboard i have an older Razer Black Widow Ultimate that I've used for many years. So i recommend a solid mechanical keyboard. However if you had to choose between upgrading your mouse or your keyboard, I think your mouse is a way more important upgrade since thats what you use to aim.
There's tons of good gaming mice, so if you can go to a store and find what feels good in your hand.
I use the Razer Deathadder Chroma. It works for me. Figure out your hand size. Keyboard doesn't matter as much I don't know my specific model but it is from Perixx.
A lot of pros use Logitech G403 and I havent actually tried it but im considering getting one. Razer Deathadder is actually pretty underrated (the one i currently use)
g403 is one of the safest choices out there and a tenkeyless mechanical keyboard makes it easier to give you a lot of mouseing room without having to move the keyboard way further to the left.

&nbsp;
Also very important to me (but not many people b/c they are used to what I'm not used to) is the horizontal length of the control key. It seems like 80+% of mechanical keyboards have a quite small ctrl key, less than half the length of the shift key, but some have a ctrl key that is half the length / a little more which makes it significantly easier to press with pinkie b/c you don't have to reach as far.
&nbsp;

I like the razer blackwidow tournament edition (blue feeling switches. I also like brown switches a lot. Blue / razer green have a hard click, brown have a small click/bump. Red and black have no click. Having a click (tactile feedback) is better imo).

&nbsp;

Example of control key size (top razer blackwidow tournament edition, bottom is some ducky tenkeyless): https://imgur.com/jj5VmAf

/r/mechanicalkeyboards and /r/mouse review. i use a ducky rgb tkl with black cherry blacks and i have like 3 mice but hate them all. fk2 g pro and g403.
As a fellow Glorious Mouse Mat user I definitely would recommend. Works wonders with my G Pro.
I use my G402 at almost exactly the same settings, it was definitely a nice improvement over my old cooler master mouse.
Does the G403 have a software where you can change the DPI at will
Yes, download the Logitech Gaming Software from Logitech's website. It makes it SUPER easy to customize your mouse buttons, lighting options, DPI, polling rate. I even use the same software for my Logitech Headphones. Im not a salesman for Logitech, i just really like their stuff. 

(btw I recommend NOT using variable DPI. I just set mine to 1 cycle at 1600. Variable DPI is a detriment in a game where muscle memory is so important for aiming.) 
> Does the G403 have a software where you can change the DPI at will

It even has a button on the mouse itself (under the scroll button) for adjusting DPI, so either way you're covered. 

The mouse is really good, I can definitely recommend it :)
Ok, that sealed the deal for me. Thanks 


Hey guys, it's the hidden spots/jumps guy again; I decided to make one last video with the release of Junkertown. Hope you learn something new!
So yeah, you may remember me from a long time ago where I put out like an ~8 minute video on spots no one had seen before at the time. I thought I was done making these videos, but with the release of Junkertown I had just enough hidden spots to make a decent video. Anyway, hope you enjoy! 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f59gzRW5Qck&t=6s
Help with bastions.....
So I'm a low gold, console, tank main just to give you guys some reference. Basically, I play with a group of friends and it never fails that almost every other game, a Bastion will set up somewhere, be it on the payload, in a corner, etc. while being pocketed by a Mercy. 9 times out of 10, we will lose the match because we just cannot deal with all of the damage that is being put out. If I could gets some advice, or tricks, or anything really to deal with this it would be greatly appreciated because we are at our wits end with this haha.Honestly if they are that silly, a Sombra/Genji combo will do nicely. Mercy/Pharah as well.

I personally am a tank so out of my main Rein and my 3 back ups DVA/Orisa/Roadhog. I tend to either Charge with Rein or hook with road. Halt is also beneficial to keep him away and disorient. 
Fun trick that will screw up Bastions at that rank: Fire Symmetra's fully charged M2 at Bastion over and over. He'll have to move around a bunch and that'll mess with him. Your teammates will have to clean him up as he's shifting, though.

Fair warning - if he's pocketed by a DVa this won't work.
Tracer does a really good job of dealing with him even if you just farm pulse bomb and the land the stick. The thing with bastion is that your team has to be focusing him always. If you shot call for your team try and keep track of when he would becoming back into the fight and call out that everyone should be hunting him.
You know what's helped the most with the charge? Either a drop on him or at least one little distraction... I've been lucky due to a good team but yeah a attack powered bastion will melt you
if the bastion has no cover get an ana and just have her focus on sleep darting him. Combo that with a genji or some type of flanker and it should buy you enough time to kill the bastion. Doing this over and over again will eventually piss them off enough that they will switch.

All of the other people who commented on this gave really viable ideas as well. 
Note: If he's got enough room, Bastion will just mow you down before your charge even gets near him. Gotta get the drop on him.
I attempted something similar the other day against a Rein+Bastion+Torb combo in a corner and got Sym's ult really fast. If you need to approach or get out of cover then remember to use her shield too. 

Has the Crosshairs changed?
Ever since the latest update/patch whatever you want to call it, I feel like my crosshairs have been changed a lot, It feels like I have the opacity at 50 even if it's at 100 anyone else have this problem? I've tried putting the outline opacity at 100 but that just makes it look awful. I can barely see the crosshair now and it's really annoying since the only way I can make it more visible is if I put outline opacity at 100 which just makes it worse imo. So if anyone could help me I'd be really gratefulYour thickness is probably 1. Try 2 and see.
I had a similar problem with my Hanzo crosshair- I couldn't get it exactly back to what I had. Something just looked a little off about it. Realized that "outline" had turned itself on after the game updated- it was putting a black border around the crosshair, making it appear too thick. 
I've noticed the same thing with several of my characters and it makes men loose my crosshair A LOT
It's outline opacity. Change it to 0 and you're good.
yes the added outline has it's own color (black) and opacity. if your crosshair is thickness 1 the outline "overwrites" your crosshair with a 50% grey filter basically

change thickness to two and you get back your old vibrancy (additionally you can put the border opacity to 0 and you should have the exact same crosshair as it was before the patch)

Genji Matchups
Hey all, recently picked up Genji and hoping for some insight for specific matchups. I've been playing deathmatch which has definitely helped and generally queue for comp with a Zen player. 

Tracer: can't seem to consistently kill her despite reading online that it's favourable for me. She darts around way to much for me to finish her off - playing on console so reliably landing the shurikens is tricky.

McCree: if I deflect his flash bang, I continue the deflect animation whilst he's stunned meaning I can't easily finish him off

Zarya: can't do much damage to her - do I just ignore her until my team has got a kill opportunity? If I flank her she just turns around and beams me to death.

Thanks for any and all insights. Tracer only has 3 blinks that needs to recharge. While she uses her first 2 blinks, keep spamming right click on her head. If you hit it once, go for another and dash and you should be able to finish her off. 

As for Mccree, if you stun him wth flash bang, as soon as your deflect runs out, right click on his head and dash behind before finishing him off with yet another right click. You should be close enough to land all 3.

Finally, don't fight Zarya head on and go for her team's squishies and finish her off with your team.
Genji main here. Tracer is a tricky target but spam right click at her head, it does a LOT of damage. 1-2 shurikens should force her to recall. After a rightclick dash should take away half if not all of her health. For mccree, deflect flashbang and cancel it with dash after. If you can't it's ok just be prepared to rightclick spam his head after, be mobile. Since be doesn't have flashbang it'll be near impossible to hit you. Right click dash is an easy way to secure a kill if he's under 100 hp, especially for mccree as he is easy to hit. Zarya is tricky- she has shields for her supports so you can't pressure them easily and you can't deflect her lazer. Other than that Shes slow and her hit box is large, so long range left clicks might be good. Encourage your team to help, and when she's low dive her unless she's being healed by a mercy or ana. If she's critical hp, don't worry about her shield charge (again unless she's being burst healed) if you quickly kill her her shield charges reset. I might be wrong on some of these but hopefully you got something out of it

EDIT: Deflecting her shots cause no spread, is what I'm told of, so try that to force recall
Tracer: You have to understand her mechanics. Most Tracers recall once you get them to around 30-50% health so try not to overly commit and use everything until after she recalls because if she successfully baits you out you'll have no abilities and she will be on full health.

McCree: You can cancel your deflect animation with swift strike. Also keep in mind that he can flashbang the floor or slightly above you to avoid the deflect and stun you.

Zarya: Hard to kill. Genji is weak against tanks. Aim for the head if you want to accelerate the shredding.

General: Hit your shurikens and preferably hit those heads as you're effectively doubling your damage and you can save a lot of time and win skirmishes that you otherwise wouldn't. Body shots do nothing against tanks and with the size of their head you should be consistently hitting them.
tracer: i wouldnt try to 1v1 her too much in ranked, but you are decent for peeling because your dash is easy to hit and is 1/3 of her health. generally speaking genji loses to most dps.

mccree: you win those by getting good shuriken hits in, or you delfect and cancel with dash, or you deflect a bodyshot or even a headshot

zarya: depends on her energy but you can do some damage to her up close with rmbs, when you see zarya at 200-300hp without shield you can try to kill her imo.
Dash cancels deflect animation, so make sure u have it when u deflect fbang !So just deflect , jump once into the air , dash at his feet , right click his head and he is dead !
For tracer get into the rhythm of her shoot and reload and right as the reload ends reflect and with no spread you can usually force recall if not ouright kill her. Once she recalls right click-dash melee and then if that doesn't do it one more shuriken should. But personally I think tracer holds the advantage in this matchup because the only way this works without a hitch is if they aren't perfect or aren't smart enough to bait out reflect and stuff.

For McCree you can dash or wall climb to cancel reflect, after that jumping over his head and right click melee straight down on his head is usually enough to secure the win.

For Zarya and most tanks for that matter, usually you don't 1v1 them. But Zarya is the only tank genji can usually take 1v1 relatively easily if she's low charge and her tracking isn't god tier. Once again jumping over their head or at least just getting slight elevation makes headshots easier, usually just combo with dash and jump around right clicking her head until she's dead. But usually don't look for this kill unless you're snowballing, she's weak, no self shield, etc.


I don't play genji, but my experience with other characters is just keep playing genji, and make sure to learn from your own mistakes. It probably just takes practice, but I'm sure someone else will have some more useful info for you haha
Oh man, I had no idea swift strike cancelled deflect! Thanks! 
wall climbing does as well if you're close to one

How do you deal with Genji as McCree?
I flashbang above, below, to the sides and his deflect always catches it. Can someone post a GIF or video showing exactly where it must be placed to avoid deflect or is that even possible?

Also, deflect basically allows him to get into position to finish with a killing blow immediately. Everytime a Genji goes into deflect and is near me, it's a guaranteed death no matter what.

I'm Masters Zen/Zarya/Soldier, btw. I've got plenty of hours in McCree, but now I'm focusing on him.Melee at him. It looks just like you're throwing the flashbang and is a good way to bait out the reflect from a Genji. After that, hit'em with the blinders for real and get an easy elim. Also if you think he's about to dash on you just roll to the left or right.

If I'm playing against a Genji I like to take high ground as often as possible just so I can bail if I need to. 
My trick against Genji's (now that everybody is playing him in DM and TDM) is to wait till deflect is over and then throw it immediately, 99% of Genji's dash after deflect and this always catches them, them bam, FTH or headshot+punch and it's over for them.
Reflect hitbox is fucking massive, like put a genji on either side of him big. Depending how close he is, try throwing it at his feet. If he's in ur face, don't bother bc that would still reflect. It will take some practice bc it's prob a big flick compared to what you're used to 
After genji deflects, roll to the left or right because 99% of the time the dash after a deflect.


Its also probobly easier to flashbang at genji feet, but youll still have to practice it. 


Bait out genjis deflect before you flashbang if youre really struggling to do it while hes deflecting
The hit box and flash bang size is not forgiving. You have a small area to work with. You are throwing too close and underestimating genji deflect box (it is quite big). 

So throwing it at the ground will get you a quick flash off but you run the risk of throwing it too close to the genji especially if they move around a lot horizontally. It is also kinda difficult to gauge the distance correctly especially with the latency. 

Genji tend to not move/jump vertically while deflecting because it makes them extremely vulnerable (instant easy flash on floor) as they are predictable and 'slow' with their air  movement.

Keep in mind that it takes less than half a second for the flash to pop and genji deflect lasts 2 sec. Knowing this you want to take your time and place the flash accurately since genji can't do anything for two sec (listen for the audio not the visual effects of deflect) . Don't be afraid to walk up to him while setting up the cross hair and readjust if needed depending on how genji reacts (moves away, jumps etc...). I prefer throwing above him because of the mentioned reasons. Calvin seems to prefer to throw the flash above also 

So the tip here is to be patient and time your flash. 

Edit:this will work against bad/mediocre genji or if you have the upper hand ie landed shots on him. However reflect can easily change that if he times the reflect with your shots to your head. At that point it's a easy dash and or melee to finish you off. You got to be careful against a genji and really try to pay attention to his deflect cd. If you get reflected with a headshot then you need to reactively throw the flash behind you as soon as he dashes you in hopes to get lucky. 

Remember that it's a 50/50 in this match up. It's preferable if you can ambush him with your positioning and or yell for a pocket heal since genji is absolutely screwed at that point
As Zenyatta I find charging the orbs up baits out deflect rather nicely, and if he did it early enough you can just wait it out charging up. Sometimes if I'm injured and sure I won't survive the follow-up after deflect I just unload into the very end of deflect; even if you kill yourself the deflect should end soon enough that he goes down too, and if he dash cancels it you can actually kill him mid-dash.
As somebody who plays Genji in lower elo but gets hit by McCree flashes, 2 things:

1) Distance matters; if he's in your face, no aim will save your flash bang
2) If you wait for his deflect to activate and end before you flash bang, you'll generally have a better time unless you're already super low, but try to run around a corner, or even underneath and behind him (roll under him as he double jumps in your direction if he does) and then flash once the deflect is done
I like to think of the deflect hitbox as being the same size as a Reinhardt shield. 
I've seen killcams of Genji's deflecting junkrat grenades etc that aren't even in their field of view..
The area of effect of the flash bang stun is relatively big, hence you may throw it high in the air at about the height of another character on top of Genji. Go to the training room and check it out.
There is a sweet spot below his diaphragm and above his thighs. Aim for that.
When Genji is deflecting, you still can hit him in his back. Only works when he hasn't noticed you ;)
As a rule of thumb I don't flashbang genji's for this exact reason, and if I do I time it so that its exactly when deflect ends. Usually you can just wait it out and get two quick headshots after.
I don't know how much I can help you with since you're higher level, but a lot of it is patience and not letting him sneak up on you. One reason why double hitscan works against Genji is because they're able to hit him before he gets to you. If you force him to half health before he gets to you, he either needs to disengage or risk dying trying to  kill you. And yeah, you have the right idea for flashbang, but you might just need to go higher/lower/further to the sides. And it's okay to hit body shots!
Genji without his deflect and dash is useless.

If a Genji is deflecting, you can always try to throw the flash 
straight on the ground.
This. Melee fake has won me countless battles vs slippery genji.
Works great when playing hog too! 
But usually they still get the dash off and now you have to 180 headshot or Fth
I have seen some interesting visualisations of its actual size: it seems to be about the same rectangular shape and position as Reinhardt's shield, but sized in relation to Genji's model, and it projects forward in a similar way to defense matrix, just not as far. 
This is exactly how I deal with Genji as McCree. He's only a threat up close. With both abilities on CD you should be able to kill him or force a retreat. 
*Loses 1 HP*


"I N E E D H E A L I N G" 
Still works against GM can confirm
look, it doesn't work EVERY time, nothing does, a good Genji is going to rip through most people. He is literally the highest skill cap Hero for a reason. If Genji's reflexes are faster than yours, then you are going to die, learn to get that flashbang out when he's not reflecting and don't be predictable with your flashbang.. learn to roll at odd times to not be in his directly dash line.. Things like this, and then again, none of this will matter if your aim isn't there. or just go Hanzo and scatter him, i took 1st place 4 times last night (never dropped out of top 3 all night) with Hanzo and McCree, one match had 4 Fn Genji's too. You can do it, it just takes practice.
Or they dash out of it, remember they can dash during reflect, good genjs dash just before it ends rather than waiting for it to end

do you guys think triple tank meta will come back
well with the orissa and mercy changes people are thinking there is a chance of that coming back like a common setup mabye then will be reinhard dva orissa mercy ana and soldier 

what do you guys think let me know I think only time will tell what the Pros end up doing to define their meta. As for the rest of us pleebs, the meta is as it always was; whatever the hell we want to play. Honestly, unless you're in the top tier, you're not squeezing out every ounce of perfection from a toon so trying to min/max a team comp and strategy is rather useless. It doesn't matter if Dive is the "meta" or if it's Triple Tank. 6 dps can still win in mid and low ranks.

For some 95% of the player base, there is no real meta.
Maybe it could come in the form of barriers since every tank but roadhog has a sheild-like ability
Hog is better now but the only reason triple tank was a thing before was that he could put out consistent dps and picks. Without that triple tank doesn't have enough damage to really work.

The comp you suggested would be very liable to flanking teams who can just run around the barriers.
Yeah reins shield will be the best option for readily available shielding once DVa is nerfed. 
nah. 1tank - 3dps - 2sup or 1tank-hog-2dps-2sup is more probable
no, to me orisa is still kinda bad and dva will be worse after the patch. rein and zarya only work on certain maps and they dont really need other tanks to "help" them out. how good hog is will show over time.
Honestly, I wouldn't be surprised if even double tank started struggling and triple dps or triple healer became more popular. Tanks are taking some heavy blows right now. D.Va is losing what made her really good, Orisa is still situational, Roadhog isn't really all that viable unless you cater to him. So this leaves you with Rein, who's almost always a necessity, and Zarya, who has mixed reviews. 

D.Va is essentially a high health dps character now, and she can't really hang with a true dps in terms of damage output. Unless the situation calls for Orisa or Zarya, I think you'll see a lot more switching up and playing around Rein. 
I generally agree with you except that team comp does still matter. Sure I've won a few 4-5 dps games, but lost many more. Having healing and shields for the team is still nice at any rank
I kind of agree. Even in low diamond dive is hardly the go to every game, usually it ends up being some bastardized version of it.
Hog is better now but the only reason triple tank was a thing before was that he could put out consistent dps and picks. Without that triple tank doesn't have enough damage to really work.
They said they are still working on Dva. Her recharge time for DM is going to be faster to compensate, so hopefully they do get her to a decent place before taking her live. 
I really wouldn't say rein is a necessity, very few games I play have Reinhardt in them
Oh team comp definitely matters. Don't get me wrong. I only used the "6 dps" comment as an example to express that because 6 dps is even *possible* in the first place goes to show how little the "meta" is relevant in ranks below top tier.
DVA's DM recharge rate increased in the PTR, but because her effective DM pool was cut in half, she'll still recharge DM slower than she currently does in live.
I think he's slowly going to become one on payload maps is what I meant. With D.Va quickly losing a leg to stand on, Rein should become quite largely the most used tank. Hog is hoh, Orisa is relatively situational, Zarya is also relatively situation and can sometimes have a better substitute. 
Gotcha. Yeah as long as my team has a healer and a tank (preferably a tank with a shield) I don't really complain. I'd 100x prefer a 'mediocre' comp with everybody playing their mains than a meta comp where people are flexing onto certain heroes.l

Overwatch | How to Improve and Practice Your Aim Deathmatch
Many people have been coming up with different methods for practicing aim. Finally we have Deathmatch which is a great way to get practice against real players without long down times or having anything on the line like SR. Deathmatch, in games like CS:GO is a very common way to warmup and train your aim and we finally have it in Overwatch.

When training, you should **NOT** do is worry about your K/D ratio. Don't worry about dying or getting kills, just worry about improving your aim. Take your time and make sure you're getting efficient practice. Concentrate on your shots. It's okay to go slow especially if you're not very good at aiming. When you're practicing you don't want to build bad habits. 

The point is **Improve your aim** not to win. So don't worry about what place you come in. Just focus on what you're improving on. The result of the game whether you win or lose do not matter.

Video version: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TIUQfkMYVxMYou can not only train your aim, you also get better at dueling specific characters. You can practice your abilities, e.g. I practice my use of translocator and invis with sombra to master her movement. As I get better with it I will improve my ability to keep myself alive in a fight. I will also get better at giving up fights I can not win. In DM you can be overly aggressive to test your own limits with certain heroes and turn back the aggression to a point where you find a good mix between impactful play and staying safe. 
This mode is great for Winston and Mei training! It teaches me how to deal with opponents I single out, and how to get away if a swarm of enemies approaches. I don't expect to win 1st but I'm happy to finally get some POTGs :)
Hmm, I'd say it's still a good idea to worry about dying, if not getting kills. Training aim isn't going to be that useful if you are also developing poor positioning
I totally agree, to the point where I almost made the same post. FFA and TDM have greatly helped me with dueling offensive characters and working with characters I'm not so great at. I've really improved at playing Tracer, to the point where she's sliding into my rotation of mains.
I really wish we could see our accuracy in FFA deathmatch games. I get why the tab menu doesn't show medals, but it really should show accuracy. Would make it way easier to quantify how well you're doing when you're using deathmatch for aim practice like this.
I find DM isn't very useful for aim training, because you're constantly at risk of dieing.  You can't practice your aim if you don't even have time to look at your opponent.
I need people to play Tracer and Genji more so I can practice my duels. Too many McCrees and Hogs.
how can you mess up abilities with sombra?
Did you win as Winston?
I mean, in a real competitive match you will not play on a map like this, and you will not play alone against seven other people. You can focus on the positioning later, when you're more comfortable with aim
Positioning is hard to practice in deathmatch. You won't have tanks to create space or provide shields and the maps are completely different in competitive. 
Going to paste a recommendation I made earlier for aim servers since you can see your accuracy in them:

I have gotten my aim much closer to how it used to be in my prime simply using person vs person AIM servers. If you search aim in custom game there will be "AIM practice - PVP" servers you can join. It's a nonstop skirmish with 0 respawn time and most are balanced nicely towards aiming. You get to nonstop practice your aim and mechanics against real people over and over and it's actually pretty fun to top it off.

 My aim used to be literally on the same level as the pros in quake 3 but I took a 5+ year break from gaming and lost all of my muscle memory from it. Just a few weeks of playing in these servers has helped get my aim closer to where it used to be than the whole rest of my time in Overwatch combined and I have played since open beta. I would highly recommend it. You see a decent amount of GM/top500 players in there honing their skills if that's any more testament to their usefulness. I found that I was having a REALLY hard time tuning my aim while having to worry about objectives, cooldowns, ults, and all the other worries of Overwatch. This removes all of those and lets you focus on solely your aim! There is also no better place to practice a hero you want to learn minus the few that don't really work well in there.

Just beware of the ones made by lower level players that use whacky settings. Some people have this weird idea that turning gravity down and messing with the speed of movements and jumps will help them. I recommend stearing clear of those servers. 
It would be nice to have a sort of statistic to go off of. I suppose it's not needed since the game mode itself it just about kills, but then again, you can say the same thing about competitive and other modes. The damage you deal and the kills you get don't matter as long as you complete the objective. 

Would be nice to have.
I think that's exactly why it's so good for practice. It puts you in lots of tight 1v1 duels back to back and forces you to either hit your shots or die. Those are exactly the types of engagements I need help coming out on top with and surviving in a real game. The ones where I'm widow and a genji dives me and double jumps over my head type stuff
You could try TDM then. I find 8 people ffa to be just the right amount of people though. The thing with TDM is just you'll have less engagements with people. That and there will be times where you'll be in scenarios where the enemy is paying attention to your allies which makes things a bit easier espeically if you end up finding engagements where you have more numbers (2v1 for example) 

Personally, doing ffa myself for a few days the only time I really ran into that issue sometimes was when it was only on the PTR. On the PTR most servers held 12 people and sometimes there would be a few occurrences where I didn't really get a chance to even do anything. It happened but wasn't frequent. With 8 I haven't had that issue. 

Does anyone know when they plan on expanding the FFA map pool?

Same. I think TDM is better for this. The DM map is too chaotic.
If you're constantly getting spawned trapped, yeah you're correct.

If you're not getting spawned trapped, and this is an issue - then you need to practice more than just your aim....
I think it's great for training awareness and reaction times as well as aim. You are constantly getting flanked and need to be on your toes to survive, especially for me as I play Orisa in ffa to improve my offensive capabilities
Throwing TL to your disired (mabe far away) location, combo tl and invis to escape a fight without having tl set up before. Using tl to confuse/out-play an enemy in a duel. Fighting on your healthpack without getting killed by burst damage/cc.  There is much you can do with her abilitys, if you have enough practice. 
what? Sombra has a pretty high skill ceiling. 
winnie main here. ive won with him  few times.  its defo possible.
I have yet to actually won a FFA but I've placed 2nd :p
Sure, but the basics still apply. The death match map has TONS of variety, and you have to know where your hero is going to play best. It's no good if you go into death match with the focus on improving aim when people are killing you before you get a chance to put your cross-hair on them. I'd say in most circumstances understanding what makes positioning "good" and being able to transfer that into any map is significantly more important than aim.
That, and you don't typically have people spawning behind you right after killing them.

It's amazing for aim and character match-ups, but as you say, positioning is less so.
I can see your point, but i still disagree. I focused on positioning first, and once i learned the right spots to camp, i could start focusing on other things; aiming/match up meta. 
thank for the tip!
It depends on what part of your aim needs improvement. If you have problems with the basic hand-eye coordination of getting the pointer to move to where you want it quickly and reliably, and timing your shot to coincide with it, then no in-game practice (bots, players, quick play, tdm) is helpful. You should find a setting where you don't move, the targets don't move, and just drill to get your muscle memory and hand-eye coordination in place. Keep everything else constant while slowing making the targets smaller and the reaction-time smaller. 

If you already have that down and your problem is more game-related things (dealing with ADAD-spam, predicting blinks and deflects, landing projectile shots, knowing where Ana's weird head-box is) then practicing in games like DM is useful. 

Neither type is optimal for everything, although either will do if you are ok with it taking much longer. 
What I mean is, when your opponents are Hanzo/Mcree/other one shot heros, you don't have much time to practice your aim on them.  You only have two seconds to either kill or be killed.  You'd be much better off doing something where you can focus on nothing but the thing you're trying to train.  In a custom game, you can just practice keeping your crosshairs on a target without having to stop so often.
i dont see how you can mess that up
yes but its more about who to hack and when to go in and positioning etc. its not about being able to throw dislocators well. the skill floor for sombra is actually pretty low if you know what shes meant to do(spam emp). all her abilites are made so you cant mess up pretty much.
How do I stop sucking as winston bro
It's completely different positioning from normal OW though. 
The whole point of this is to get practice against real players though. I have another video going over different custom games if that's what you're looking for.

Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FdTsWdUD-Os
Well Sir then you must be a gm level sombra player. 
game sense, jump timing, bubble dance.
not as different as one might think. it's the same basic logic in every game mode. What range do you want to keep enemies at? Open areas? long corridors? tight rooms? Can you abuse high ground or should you avoid it? Where are the health packs? Where are your escape routes? Can you boop or be booped off edges? PLENTY of things to think about that apply to regular games. 
im a gm player but i rarely play sombra these days, playing her is like a flowchart in most cases
So you were just looking to humble Brag. Got it.
So would you mind sharing the flow chart or thought process for us (non gm but trying to learn)?
Maybe in comp, but I don't play her the same in DM. Many times if I hack a pack and put down my TL close to it I often time teleport back to death as an enemy will just camp my TL for a free kill. In DM I'm using TL for quick escapes and trying to juke opponents.
You might be GM SR, but you sure as hell aren't GM "level" ifyouknowwhatimsayin'
i didnt bring that up lol
1. hack healthpacks
2. let your team use them
3. place dislocator
4. go stealth
5. attack enemy team, try to get a pick or hack a key target and get out when you are low/get pressured
6. heal yourself with the pack and repeat

when you get ult use it and go in with your team. when emping try to get zen and zarya in because they lose health. after the emp if you have time try to rehack lucio/mercy to prevent them from ulting.

counter ulting lucio is good too.
well in dm maybe but that was not what i meant lol
i have far more knowledge than most gms and ive been gm for 3 seasons now on multiple accounts, pls
dude stop
Ok well that's a terrible strategy. Placing a _trans_locator on a health pack and just going back to it all the time is a bad idea and removes all her mobility.

For someone who claims to be GM, I figured you might know the correct ability terms

EDIT: There is way more to her than hacking healthpacks, in fact you really want to be using it on heros just as much as healthpacks and if you are just constantly in this loop you describe you aren't really helping your team
Then why are you talking? The conversation is about DM...
I bet you have been.  First time I'd see someone that skilled being that conceited about their skill level.  Even *if* you are the rank you claim, I bet you're an absolute fucking joy to play with.
Still not convinced.
literally scroll up, he said that
never said that you had to put in exactly on the healthpack

also i dont claim to be gm, i am gm. on multiple accounts even, feel free to add: SnakeEater#21951 and Gintoki#2125

and you are helping your team, you farm emp and be annoying because its really hard to kill sombra
follow the comments, it was about improving for ranked games
how am i conceited about my rank? he literally said "you must be gm". what should i have said to that? "no im gold"?

and again, i dont claim to be gm, I AM. you can send me a request if you want.

considering i always talk in voice and fill either tank or support in most games, most people should be happy about having me in their game. im almost never toxic.
you can go to my main on master overwatch and check for each season, ive played new heroes every season so i can play most heroes at this point except some really off meta picks, this includes, genji, soldier, tracer, mccree, reaper, sombra, torb, dva, rein, zarya, winston, hog, lucio, ana, zen.

Tri-monthly Simple Questions Thread: S6, 2017
#SEASON 6 SIMPLE Q&A

Hello!

**New to Overwatch? Got something simple on your mind?**
&nbsp;

Welcome to this season's edition of the Tri-monthly SQT! Post all your simple queries here. This thread will be used to host a centralized place where all basic questions can be asked and answered.

---

**An important reminder for all -- there are NO STUPID QUESTIONS.** Ask Anything; and yee shall receive.

* What is Overwatch?
* What roles are there?
* How many heroes are there, and will there be more?
* How do I get skins?
* How does ranked work?
* Who should I play?
* Is there an x or y feature?

*Note that discussion is not limited to the above topics.*

---

Considering that this is the first time a new segment has been posted in the middle of our season, the length of this Thread will not be 3 months long, but it will end on the end of **Season 6,** date to be known. The next thread will be posted the day starting the next Season. 

---

If you have any suggestions or comments please [Message The Moderators](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FOverwatchUniversity) and we will get back with you shortly.What is the fastest way to level up (not sr)?
Should I keep Ana's zoomed sensitivity the same as unscoped or lower?
Play your best hero and play for the medals, as they give you additional xp. You can also play with friends to get an additional 20% xp.
I cant remember what the time of day it resets but you can get an easy 3000 bonus exp for "first win of the day" twice in one day assuming you don't play every day
Get at least one gold medal per game. Play in a group for the 20% bonus exp. If it's loot boxes you're after play the weekly arcade bonus until it's done, then spam QP or comp.
This is up to preference. The way I found my Ana's sens is I picked a low sens and played a few QM games. At that point, I adjust my mistakes to my new sens. Adjust it if needed, if your aim goes too far or not far enough. 
Just an fyi, as far as I recall, the additional for gold medals only counts for 1 gold medal. I don't think it matters if you have 1 or 5, you only get the 1 gold medal bonus.

So, a gold medal bonus (10% I think?), first win of the day bonus (1500exp), group bonus (20%).

Also, the longer a match is the more exp you'll gain. I'm not 100% sure if it scales any differently though. I don't know if it's any given amount of exp per minute or if longer matches give you more exp per minute than shorter matches.

I know last night I had a 3-0 arcade game (3v3 elim) that went very quickly and I only gained 494 exp. My buddy who is about 70 levels higher than me gained 390'ish. We were comparing at the end cause it was so laughably small.

Comp matches tend to last the longest since the match ups are a bit more even and people take it more seriously. QP *can* last the longest since the time limits are longer but in my experience that's not very often.

Imo, even if exp per minute (played) is the same no matter how long the match, I'd venture to say that longer matches will grant you better exp per minute (real time) since you don't have to wait the down time between matches trying to find another match.
That depends on what time zone you're in and supposing you didn't already get the "first win of the day" on the previous day. For me, CST in the US, it's around 5-7 I think. I've noticed it before but never really paid much attention to the time but those are the hours where I'll have gotten home from work and hop on. Sometimes I'll get my first win of the day in between those hours then I'll get another first win after those hours. If I get the second though, I won't get it the next day until after those hours.
I keep it on 0.4. But since Ana quickscoping is a legit good strategy in some situations, will the lower aimed sensitivity harm it?
> Just an fyi, as far as I recall, the additional for gold medals only counts for 1 gold medal. I don't think it matters if you have 1 or 5, you only get the 1 gold medal bonus.

That is correct. Only your highest medal matters and multiples don't matter.
Experience awards are calculated as such:

* 204 xp/minute  
* 250 xp for finishing the game  
* 0/50/100/150 xp for your highest medal being none/bronze/silver/gold
* 500 xp for winning  
* 200 xp for consecutive matches  
* 400 xp for backfilling  
* 1500 xp for the first win of the day  
* +20% for playing in a group

So even on a really shitty run you're still getting 450xp at the end of each match for just staying in the game, which offsets 2:12 of downtime between games.  
If you can manage a gold medal but still lose you're offsetting 2:56 between games.  
If you're getting a gold and winning half the games you're averaging a 4:10 offset.  
If you're going crazy and getting golds and winning every match you're getting a 5:23 offset.  
Being in a group has no effect on these numbers, since that multiplier applies to everything anyways. I've also ignored the backfill bonus since there's no way to reliably pull that off (and you'd often lose from the queue anyways).

You don't get any experience for the 1:30 of hero selection and setup, which eats a decent chunk of that time, but I think even on bad days you're still at least as well off with quick matches as you are with long matches - assuming your lobby stays alive.
yeah thats about right. I'm EST and pretty sure it's 6pm or so that've gotten the bonus twice in the same session.

just saying, if you dont play every day, try to time it so that when you do, you can make the most of the awards/exp you can get.
With my experience, you can have a higher sens for scoping, as you get help with additional precision. Lower sens won't necessarily harm it, if you're better with it; though it makes quickscoping much faster and efficient.
Huh...neat.
Absolutely.

Question about choosing DPS/Tank/Heal
As a general rule of thumb, how should a team go about choosing its DPS/Tanks/Heals based on map and offense/defense? 

I know on Hanamura/Temple of Anubis its good to have Winston as a tank and Tracer/Genji for dive comp. How about heals? (vs. pharmacy espcially)

Are there any other general rules of thumb? I see a LOT of ppl have McCree on their team on defense regardless of the map. What's the reasoning behind this?

Ana is good with tanks.

Any other rules of thumb? I know this is very situation/opposing team specific so I'd just like to know some general rules.pharmercy is a tough one. You have 2 options, none of them is simple. 

1. You can ignore pharmercy and kill the remaining 4 enemies faster than pharmercy can kill you. After that, you can focus the combo with men advantage.
--> Its obvious that this isn't gonna work in low elo. Fights tend to be much longer, because players trickle in, there is no clean reset, the list goes on

2. Your team plays characters that counter pharmercy, or that are not as easy to kill with pharmercy.  That means no rein, no doomfist, no junkrat, no torb or bastion. Zenyatta+Hitscan+Dva can take out the combo, by focusing her together. 
--> Again not optimal for low elo, because players don't work together as a Team, don't call discorded targets, don't focus fire.  
A good general rule is always try for 2/2/2 in any team comp. You won't always get that and there are plenty of comps that will work, but it's a good balanced baseline. 

Other rules: Pick hitscan if they have pharah. Soldier and Lucio work in any team comp. Pick dive heroes if they have widow etc.  
The biggest problem
 in this game is people tend not to switch even if really needed. The game revolves about adapting yourself to the enemy comp and vice versa. 
To do that efficiently you have to have a decent understanding of the game, sometimes a 3 dps comp of the enemy team is gonna give you a hard time, and sometimes even switching a tank for a dps can counter it, getting yourself a 3/2/1 comp.
Try to find out who is giving you the most trouble in the enemy team and get a good counterpick you know how to play.
Sometimes you will lose the first teamfight even if you have the better comp, don't switch right away. Some tanks/dps/healers are weaker against dive comps, Zarya for eg doesnt get that much value against dive, lucio is good because he provides the mobility to get out of sticky situations whereas a ana/Mercy healer combo gets friebd by winston and is even weaker if you dont at least have two tanks.
In the end the experience you will gain while you play the game will help you understand how to react in most situations. 

Season 6 Goals
What is everyone's goal for Season 6. There are a lot of new and exciting changes and I am pretty excited for everything happening now. My goal is to peak in masters and to stay in diamond the whole time, playing and improving a lot on Ana. 

What are your goals for Season 6? You can always come back later and see if you met them, I did this last season and I met my goals which was exciting. 

Good luck also to everyone in Season 6! My goal is to stay positive. 

I fully expect to make it through at least 3 placements before giving up on my goal.

edit: I made it through one placement.
To get to gold. My career high was in gold from season 2 when everyone was placed in gold so I don't really count that. I finished season 5 at 1682. 
As someone who ended with 964 SR, who consistently plays better than his 1950 SR buddies in Quick Play and Arcade  (gold elims, damage, etc., DPS; easy pushes and caps when support), my goal is to stop exclusively playing Competitive solo queue at 2am after a six pack and a joint. ELO hell is real, man, and apologies to all the teammates I've dragged down into it with me. 😂 🍻

Edit: I don't throw, I just am awful after a good night's fun. Also eff the flex player SR penalties, especially in bronze where nobody cares about comp. 
My goal is getting GM. I was close near the end of season five so I'm sure I can get it in season 6. 
Playing on one account instead of five and getting t500.
I've been a Junkrat main stuck in plat for every single season so far since 2. It's time.
My goal is to have fun and use my wits to joke with toxic players because that is always a good time.  Also get to masters on my alt and diamond on my main (made a genji only account and got good lol)
My goals for season 6 are:

1). Reach **Master**. Last season I was one game away from it twice, so honestly it really should be doable. Sad part is that Zenyatta (who is my main atm) & D.Va (one of my go to flex picks) will probably be less useful from here on out so will have to expand my hero roster again.

2). Once I've reached that, want to achieve a stable SR around 3750 at minimum.

3). Find a team of similar SR people and do scrims/6-stack comp games to bring my gameplay to the next level
To get my first golden weapon. Mercy’s golden staff, here I come!
I want to become competent at three-tricking ana, s76 and winston - hitting platinum to diamond without feeling as if I'm too weak a winston to switch from soldier or vice-versa.
Hopefully to play more consistently, I'm pretty sure this was the same exact goal I had for Season 5 but still didn't play much at all. I have 3 accounts, on my main and one of my alts I stopped playing midway through the season, then I got my 3rd account to Grandmaster but I still only played it to keep it from decaying. I'm  going to just have one of my accounts this season have minimum 100 hours so I can improve more, because last season all my accounts hours combined equaled only to like 70 which is pathetic. Now that I think about it, having this goal when I just started high school again is gonna conflict with eachother and I'll probably end up using the excuse "I have no time to play because school." FeelsBadMan
To maintain 4500+sr
Better my ult management.
I just want to play more competitive. QP is getting a little stale, and I get a lot of enjoyment out of the communication/teamwork side. It helps that I'm flex, with the most time on Lucio and Zarya, but comfortable on all healers and tanks + Mei/Bastion/Reaper/Soldier. I'd feel good about finishing in platinum - I was placed in Gold last season, but didn't really try to rise. Mostly just looking to push myself a bit.
My goal is to improve my sr and get to plat... pretty psyched about it (I'm in silver don't judge)
Probably to get to Silver honestly so I can finally play with my friends again and feel like I'm contributing instead of holding them all stagnant at 1600.


Maybe upload a game or two to this subreddit if I ever get brave enough.
To not let all the toxic cunts prevent me from enjoying the game.
I want to try to commit to playing Sombra a lot more and see how high I can get with her. I really love this hero, but always was a bit deterred from playing her because of the hate she gets and team coordination she needs. 
My goal is to reach Masters as a Torbjorn one-trick.

It's probably going to require finding a regular set of people to play with, because from my experience one out of every 2 or 3 games, someone accuses me of throwing for picking Torbjorn on attack. I am really good at Torb (that's how I reached Diamond), and I actually think he's drastically underrated by the community as a DPS (he has really strong weapons and an aimbot hitscan at his disposal), but it just seems to weaken the team's morale in a drastic way when I pick Torbjorn. I don't think I deserve the ire of my teammate, but that doesn't mean I don't get it, and I think attack Torbjorn is often made weaker by the effect it has on other teammates. I recognize why someone on a 4 or 5 game losing streak might tilt when I lock Torb on attack on Anubis, but defeatist attitudes are usually more devastating to our chances of winning than the pick itself.

I reached 3300 in season 5, so I know that I can get to Masters with enough effort. I think the most valuable practice is to play lots of Deathmatch to really sharpen my 1v1s against Genjis, Reapers, and Pharahs, which tend to give me the most trouble as a Torb.
My goal is to get back to Master. Last season I tried to push my best winrate hero from Season 4 to become my main (Hanzo - 57% - 18 hours - 3516) and pretty much tried to one trick him in Season 5. Unfortunately, I was flamed relentlessly and due to the sudden increase in DPS mains, I naturally lost a lot more this season with him (44% - 56 hours - 3180). This season I see myself maining Zen, as I believe that I wont be able to win more games as DPS as the number of DPS mains will continue to rise and his support ult is now the best in game now that ressurrect has been nerfed.
Pretty sure getting to GM will be pretty easy now as a Junkrat one trick.

So I am going to do that. 

I was hovering around 3850. Do getting that last 150sr shouldn't be too hard.    
I hope to reach 3.3k+. Ended at 3030 after climbing from 2600, so I'm optimistic about this one.
i want get out of plat and reach diamond playing a lot of mccree and genji and stay positive 

GM as tank main. Hoping my boy Rein comes back strong in the meta.
My goal is to get top 500 and play at 4.3+
I'm just trying to finally get out of master, or at least get high enough to queue with my friend in top 500. I've finished in master every season of competitive so far but I just can't seem to get good enough to break into GM. I peaked at 4030 briefly in season 4 but promptly lost it. I feel like I should have improved enough to make it at this point but I just can't seem to get there. Here's hoping for this season. 
My goal is same as you 
This season I am transitioning from console to PC. On console I reached diamond and stayed there from seasons 3-5. This season for me is all about learning how to get my mechanics up to speed with my game knowledge. I'd be happy if I can hit platinum. 
Achieve masters again though this time as a flex DPS. Have been a Tank main for basically every season and it's getting stale. The most fun was probably when I came to really enjoy Rein mirror fights but those were rare. 

Between practicing with Tracer, Pharah and Mccree, I feel like I'll be able to hit Diamond at the very least. How much further will depend on how much better I get mechanically. 
Getting consistently in mid masters and hopefully push to GM. I was in 2 seasons at masters, in 4 where I barely pushed to it and 5 where I got in it for quite some time.
Well, it was to get to diamond, but so far my placements have been plagued by utter fuckwits so i'm probably just gonna stay plat. Honestly, i think i'm just going to take a break from the game, i don't seem to be going anywhere with over 500 hours played.
I can finally play Junkrat comp without feeling like I'm a failure.

I mean I can still be a failure, just not feel like it.
I want to get better at flexing tanks and dps when there's other support mains in my games. I'd also love to do a similar climb from my last season in this one, but I'm expecting a 1200 SR climb from a high gold low plat placement is a lot harder so more realistically hitting diamond would be neat. 
My goal is to hit diamond! My secondary goal is to work on my positioning (I'm a support main). Hoping to make it happen! Good luck to all of you :)
i just grinded trough my 10 placements 

it was a terrible experience.
last season peak was 28xx, all time high was 3079

ended season 5 with 27xx.

first match was a good one, i searched the second the season began.

i only managed to win 3/10 games 

5 of them were good, close and fun games but the other 5 were kida meh.. we got plowed pretty hard 

idk if i want to play any more games this season.
i am capeable of much more and absolutley hate teammates that dont communicate / make stupid mistakes over and over again. 


My goal is Diamond. I hit Gold in the last few days of the season but shoot for the moon even if you miss you'll end up with the stars. 

Unless you fuck up and fall back to earth crashing horribly
Platinum with zen.
I hope to place on high gold-low plat and work my way up to diamond before the PTR changes go live. 
Not play Zen so much.

Last season, I ended up playing a lot of Zen, and it caused me to creep up to mid gold, which is above my skill level. So that was fine until I needed to play somebody else, at which point I lost a string of matches and lost a few hundred SR.

I'm going to avoid playing Zen, will hopefully place lower than last season, and maybe I'll actually have a good time this season. I'd be happy to play mostly in silver and just peak up into gold for the seasonal reward.
Not get tilted. Ever. It's a bad habit of mine that I fall into and it doesn't help. I want to remind myself that it's just a game
Hit platinum after 6 seasons, was 2 games away before I started losing, got frustrated and stopped playing. Making the switch from support to DPS (Sombra, McCree and Pharah) to try and climb. 
I'm gonna fill in the team comp all season.

I will warm up in Deathmatch.

I wanna reach Diamond rating this year.

HashtagSeason6Goals
Goal is to hit GM maining hanzo, peaked at 3990 last season, so I believe 
I would say progress my rank but... i've spent 5 seasons in platinum. I'm extremely, painfully, aware of how little SR blizzard deems i am worthy of with each win.

So on that note, my goal is to not play overwatch so much!
My SR goal is to make it to Diamond.

My own goals specific to me are to improve my aim and add DPS heroes to my repertoire, primarily focus on my Tracer, Soldier, McCree, Genji and Sombra. I would love to add Widow as well.

For supports I want to feel more confident with Ana, and most of that has to do with my aim.


Finally, I want to stay positive this season. Last season I felt burnt out and didn't play for a whole month. But I also felt nervous and depressed when playing because I took every loss personal, as if I were the reason we lost. I want to look past that and simply think of ways to stay positive and focus on my own improvements that can benefit the team. 
My goal is to get to Diamond and to stay there. I am currently hovering in mid plat, with a S5 high of 2813SR. I know I can do it if I focus more on improvement. Also, I'd like to add Sombra to my hero pool, which currently consists of (best Hero --> weakest Hero) Zarya, Ana, Tracer, DVA, Winston, Zen and a really bad Pharah i used to be good with :(


reach 4400
* Use more advanced tech with my main (tracer) like blink-meleeing when appropriate.
* Practice Genji and get him to a level where I can play him in ranked without feeling like throwing
* Work on that aim

Reaching Diamond would be nice, I've done it in S3 but haven't been able to get back there in S4 and S5.
I want to try and get to Diamond as a flex tank main. I'm massively looking forward to using Orisa more this season but I want to keep getting better as Winston. 
Let's have a repeat of last season and gain at least 1000 sr
Mine's? Getting out of Bronze.
To place at 1400 or below on my alt account so that playing with friends at 1500 skill doesn't make the rest of the team extra salty about "Who brought the bronze" and said friends salty about "Fuck this 2k+ matchmaking shit, I'm going back to suck at my 1500".
Do my placement matches. Last season I was able to get to 2/10.
I want to rank up this season, not rank down. Diamond was so close and by the end of the season I was in Gold and sinking further.
To get a peak over 3500SR and end at a minimum of 3250SR.

I've managed to hit Diamond every season that I played (apart from S4 in which I barely played more than placements). Even S5 where I got placed at ~2200SR due to a mix of unfortunate placements and low end-of-season MMR from S4 I managed to climb back to Diamond and peaking at almost 3100. Dropped back down to ~2900 because people stopped caring about climbing more so late in the season and refusing to play proper teamcomps (no supports when our team has 4 supportmains, Junkrat/Genji/Hanzo into an enemy PharMercy etc). Hopefully I can remedy that by duo-queing though.
I've been climbing one rank each season, season 2 silver, season 3 gold, season 4 plat, season 5 diamond, so I guess this season's goal is masters
1. To resist the urge to uninstall when I finish my placements and find myself in bronze again. 
2. To release all expectations of being able to escape from bronze without starting a new account. 
3. To figure out how to be happy never getting out of bronze. 
Diamond. I've played in Diamond level games with my high Dia/low masters friends, and came within 100 SR of it. I'm sure I can make the leap now.
It will be my third season, I finished at 2600 on my first one, 2800 last season so I'm aiming for diamond during this one :) Better reach it before my baby D.Va gets her f***ing nerf :(
I want to get familiar with a flanker DPS, and play it with a fair amount of competence.  Either Genji, Tracer, or Reaper.  It's one aspect of Overwatch gameplay I haven't even looked into yet, and it's preventing me from predicting an enemy flanker's movements.
To get GM.
I want to actually continue playing comp throughout the whole season. Usually I get burnt out after a few weeks and just fall into playing only QP.

I also want to solidly hit at least mid diamond after finally getting diamond in season 5 and placing at 3145 this season.
>through at least 3 placements 

seems like you also try to be optimisitc
Put some serious playtime into Pharah and you'll rank up. She destroys in that elo. 
Ah the good old days before my friends got me to try harder
I feel for you. At the end of S4 (my first competitive season) I dropped down from 1646 to 1294sr. I was placed 940sr in S5. I managed to climb to a season high of 1725sr. So there's hope! 
Kind of hard to blame elo hell while also saying you play poorly.
Dude im pretty sure i could get over 1k rating playing with a blindfold on lol
My goal is to stay in platinum the entire season. 
same, im gonna play placements on my two other accounts in the last week of comp
What are the changes for Zen?!
zen will be just fine, hes too good for attack or koth
Zen will definitely be tougher but I think he will still be viable.
You can do it! Good luck :)
Just got that one 2 days ago! It's actually my second one, first one being Zarya. 

I had a hard time choosing between Mercy, Rein or Soldier. Guessed a good balance would be Tank -> Support -> DPS and repeat. 
> I want to become competent at three-tricking

ITS CALLED FLEXING GET IT RIGHT
Playing in decay ranks with 3 accounts sounds like a chore. I can barely ass myself with 1.
I can only imagine the time you spending waiting in queue. You probably queue longer than you actively play I presume.
I don't want to be the guy that trashes you for playing Torbjorn because I do think that people sleep on his potential, but why do you have to one trick him? :(
Oh funny man, I decided to do the same thing (though the goal is diamond). I started to pick him up in season 5 and played him for around 10% of the time. I played him only on defense back then but I feel like I'm more efficient with him than any other character. So I decided to give it a go and stick with him. I have an alt account where I flex DPS and Zen if I get bored with him. I played Support and tanks for the past few seasons but I only reached gold with them, but easily reached plat playing Genji/Tracer/Sombra on my Alt. I'm 2:0 on my placements so far and muted all communication so far to prevent tilting myself and (accidentally teammates) and focused very well.
I reached Masters last Season with Torb only in Solo Q. It helps to have a dedicated account and to play for fun. I am always in voice but will mute haters instantly. Very often the red team dedicates a player to kill your turret (even if it's only lvl 1). Be vocal about it since it's basically a free kill for your team. 
The moment they realize you wanna win and are contributing the tilted person usually gets blamed.
And watch Fuey on Twitch as well as practice Torb in Deathmatch. Top 4 is always achievable.
Good luck on your journey!

Edit: If you can't handle some hate and do not love Torb more than the hate you get, you will have a hard time. Only one trick a hero you love not because you want to prove sth. On top of that I am only playing this account mid season and not excessively to find a balance between the community that hates one tricks and me loving to play him everywhere. I think that's a fair deal.
The Torb Bastion cheese comp is really strong on Junkertown. Did it yesterday on PTR with mate on bastion and me on torb. It was the most stupid game I've ever played. 
> I don't think I deserve the ire of my teammate, but that doesn't mean I don't get it, and I think attack Torbjorn is often made weaker by the effect it has on other teammates.

No, your teammates become tilted because Torb on attack sucks ass, not the other way around.
Mercy's new ult looks pretty nutty too though, and she's going to be much stronger overall now. We'll have to see. Either way I'm sticking with Zen, he's just so satisfying.
The new deathmatch is great for practicing mechanics without stress.
I miss rein duels, those were so much fun when every game revolved around who got the rein ult off quicker. It really felt like you made a huge impact by managing your firestrikes and baiting ults.
Hey placements aren't everything. You have a whole 2 months to keep climbing.
Hey that's what medals are for in the game!
around 2900 was the wall for me. Kept hitting around there and then dropping back down to mid plat again. Eventually broke through though.
+1. More elims for me for Zen and positioning 
Placement matches always feel all over the place. In my experience, real matches usually have better matchmaking. 
where did you end up at?

i try not to grind through 10 at once - i will get tired after a few matches so i spread them out
i play mostly support and was silver in season 5, wanted to switch things up and played pharah with little practice beforehand and gained 300 sr in one night.
lol, fair point. I tried to climb out of it the last week of the season (before beer o'clock)... managed to carry a couple games, but it was next to impossible to get wins... I did win a few easily when someone's smurf was on my side, but down here it's pretty much a death match and having one or two players trickling in and feeding the red team always happens. 
he's not getting any changes, but with changes to other heroes, he might see less play. [here's] (https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/6x1x32/zenyattas_role_in_the_new_meta/) a thread talking about it 
Idk man, I still think it's going to be more difficult for the following reasons:

-Zarya will be stronger, which means less discorb uptime

-Other supports will be relatively stronger, esp Mercy (depending on how she will enter live tho).

-Doomfist really gud atm, and you can't block his ult (+ grav) with trans, whereas Lucio can.

These are all speculations tho, only time will tell how things are going to turn out I guess
Those are all dope golden guns, the nice big models really stand out. I'm sad you can barely see zen's golden orbs, but I'll probably buy them anyway. At least I'll have golden nuts.
I think true flexing requires more versatility. If you've already chosen Winston and you're getting countered he has no other tank to play.
Yeah it was definitely too much for me to handle. So far I'm just planning on using one of my accounts for the first half of the season then if I'm really into the game again, then I'll play with my other accounts.
I think criticism of my one-tricking is more valid than criticizing me for the choice of hero.

Part of it is a defense mechanism; people always want you to switch, and if you've got a bunch of "meta heroes" in your history, then the defense of "I won't switch" gets a lot more resistance. This is why I made a new account. On certain maps (Dorado jumps to mind), attack torbjorn is actually pretty strong. I've had a lot of success on attack Dorado. But on my normal, flex account, I got lots of salt for picking Torb. People always demanded I switch to support, or tank, which were my other mains.

You're right, though. One-tricking anyone is selfish and demands that the team plays around you. The same is true of one-trick mercies, reins, etc.. And I won't deny that there's situations where torb should switch (either due to comp, enemy team, or map).

So, I understand. And I think if the community had less of a backlash to Torbjorn in general, I'd probably have less of a "one-trick" backlash reaction. But I find it helps me get any respect at all to clearly be at the rank I deserve with Torbjorn, and only Torbjorn.

TL;DR; if you ever switch, people will always ask you to switch. And I have a lot of fun with him on attack.
I don't recommend muting comms. Teamwork is crucial. I'd recommend muting toxicity.
Thanks! I actually made a dedicated account because my Torb picks kept getting flamed on my primary account, but eventually my new Torb one trick actually got to a higher SR than my tank/torb/healing flex account:

https://www.overbuff.com/players/xbl/MOSTLY%20TORBJORN

I have found that having an account that's exclusively Torb (with a few minutes of other chars when someone else picked Torb) is proof to people that I'm playing to win and actually trying (plus, my win rate is high enough that I can point to that). It hasn't gotten rid of all the flaming, but it is definitely better than it was on my account that didn't have Torbjorn in the name.

I'm with you in the sense that I have tons of fun with him. I love the character's appearance/personality/kit and most other characters just aren't as fun for me. I don't mind the hate, I just find it to be an obstacle in climbing that "meta" picks don't have. I'm worse on soldier 76, but people will still usually try a little bit harder if they see me pick soldier instead of torb.
Excluding the turret, a Torb who can hit his shots and give everyone an extra 75 hp is very effective. I've seen it work many times. Maybe not at the highest elo levels, but it can work for 99% of players. 
Primary fire is as strong as McCree's.

Secondary fire is one of the strongest weapons in the game.

He's a DPS that provides support with armor.

A turret is a 7th team member that the other team has to focus down.

Molten core + a turret nobody expected absolutely dominates on 2CP attack.

It's alright though, I've learned to deal with attitudes like yours and keep winning in spite of them.
True, but i have 556 hours played and the best i have ever been is 2902, it's pretty disheartening to know that I've put so much time into this game and I'm still trash.
Congrats! Yeah I seem to hit a plateau of about 10-15 games of just W/L/W/L every 200 SR but then I figure out what to change so here's hoping I can do what you did.
basicly where i ended ~2750
Ya I imagine it's pretty rough down there. I'm sure if you put in the effort you can do it though.
>Zarya will be stronger, which means less discorb uptime

more ults to counter easily

>Other supports will be relatively stronger, esp Mercy (depending on how she will enter live tho).

mercy still wont be that good for dive and maybe she will be weaker, other supps are the same

>Doomfist really gud atm, and you can't block his ult (+ grav) with trans, whereas Lucio can

yes lucio can block it but you prob gonna die anyways
If we go by your logic we will have to have terms for people who only flex 2,3,4,5, only offense, only defense, only tanks, only supports, only tanks and supports, only offense and supports, only offense and tanks... etc.

If you play only one hero, you are otp, if you play more than one, you are flex. If you only play 2, you are not as flexible as the guy who can play 10, but you are still flex.
ONETRICK MERCY MAN I SWEAR TO GOD...! 

I pick Ana as our main healer on offense, and this guy... THIS GUY who didn't pick the entire time in order to fill just locks in MERCY.

Cue me saving him from GA-ing into the enemy team half the time.
The past few seasons I always tried to communicate, but I'm playing on EU and  90% of the time everything that comes over the mic is people blaming each other or whining. Playing late at night or in the morning makes it better but it's seriously distracting and making me play worse.  
 I have pretty bad anxiety and I try to avoid toxic environments. Playing on NA is a different story though, people tend to be a lot nicer there. My ping is pretty bad there though so it's not a good option.  
You're not losing that much in these gold ranks though. Yes, occasionally you can't call out a flanker that's going to make problems or incoming ults from the enemies but it's not worth it for me to distract myself like that. And so far it seems to be working for me. 
Added an edit to my post.
Here's my overbuff: https://www.overbuff.com/players/pc/HerrDice-2660?mode=competitive

As you see your stats are way better so I have high hopes. Have to admit though that games got a lot harder for me from 3400k (placed 3300 in S5, S4 were 3150 with 11 Games, S3 3200 After 30 to 40 games) so that i really had to adjust my play style. A lvl 1 turret is often enough and your right clocks have to be on point. 
After figuring it out kills got way up the last 20 games but the first 10 I didn't contribute as much as I wanted (that's why the kills are so low)... Those master genjis and tracers really know what they do. After hitting 3600 i decayed due to vacation :( and stopped playing on that acc.
Will go for gm this season if life allows me to do so.
He's just a shittier Soldier 76 on attack.

When you have a Torb onetrick on your team, you have to deal with the fact that the enemy team can exploit that by counterpicking and effectively making the game 5v6.

Speaking as a flex / support player from the bottom of my heart, FUCK one tricks and FUCK defense/DPS onetricks in particular.
Lol ok
2900 isn't trash. Last time they published numbers they said less than 8% of players were diamond or above at any given time, and you aren't too far off that.

I broke into a season high of 2900s a few season before I finally broke through all the way to diamond last season. If you've been 2900 before I'm confident you can do it.
Thanks, I should be able to maintain it now. I managed to place at an all time high of 3145 and never dropped out of diamond once I got there last season, although I didn't play much comp after that. 

The biggest thing is to fight through those rough patches and not play on tilt. There were times when I fell down to like 2600 after hitting 2960. You just gotta bounce back and believe in yourself. If you got there before you can do it again right?

The other thing that helped was to never continue playing comp after 2 losses in a row. I would just tilt way too hard and it would really affect my play.
that's honestly not too bad. that means i will probably be in same area where i ended as well...lol 
At least you didn't drop 200 sr like you would have last season.
Just doing my placements sans beer this time. I've been doing pretty good carrying in Team Death Match against low 2000s SR players so I think I should make Gold this season. 
If you play one hero you're a OTP. If you play one class you're a class main (Tank main, etc). If you main two classes you can just say you main tank and support.

You're right though, it's a pretty poorly defined term. In my mind if you play flex you need to play a minimum of 2 hero per class to be effective enough to even call yourself flex. Otherwise you're just someone who plays a a really small pool of heroes. The goal is flexibility, which playing 1 of each class doesn't really offer at all.
wut? i play a lot of ana and i don't mind if someone else heals as mercy with me since it gives me a chance to play more offensively with ana.
i second this. other people constantly flaming and being toxic before the match even starts or playing the blame game during round switches was ruining all the fun for me. even if you mute that one person, more than likely they are going to start tilting everyone else on the team and everyone is going to be angry over comms. i ditched solo q and just started playing comp when one of my friends was on, we chill in group chat having a good time, and comp is so much more fun now even if we lose.
> He's just a shittier Soldier 76 on attack.

I don't even think Soldier 76 is the right comparison; a lot of his attack value comes from his alt-fire, which is more like a Roadhog or a Reaper. I find Torb to be very effective at two ranges: either long distance shooting down a choke, or up-close-and-personal.

I will admit though, as a one-trick, that one-tricking can create composition problems. The reason I one-trick is people get salty that I pick Torbjorn *at all*, and don't even wait to see enemy comp. Part of it is a point of pride; people like you have been telling me I can't climb as Torbjorn since I was in gold, and it just clearly isn't true.
i am a very competetive person, i reached global elite in csgo for a reason. 

but since overwatch is a team effort game its hard to carry if you have e.g a very bad dva player and super bad healers.. which happens quiet often to me 

i should start grouping up with ppl, forogot to mention that i play soloQ 97% of times 
I never get enough ult charge. 
> Part of it is a point of pride; people like you have been telling me I can't climb as Torbjorn since I was in gold, and it just clearly isn't true.

He hasn't said you can't climb as Torbjorn at all. I'm not going to argue the cons of one tricking but you trying to justify your one tricking as twisting it into some kind of underdog story is ridiculous. Are you going to bring up a hard moment in your childhood next?

One trick if you want but understand you're the one being selfish refusing to swap in to what could be a better team comp and stop trying to twist it into you being virtuous about it.

The purple number (SR?) out of 6000 that you are presented with after each placement match?
The purple number (SR?) out of 6000 that you are presented with after each placement match?  Maybe it was out of 5000. 

What does it signify? is it an estimate of where you are placing so far, or is it just how you played at for that one match, is the number cumulative? 

Sorry for lack of screenshot I am not by my PS4 now...I believe you are talking about competitive points
Guys I think this could be competitive points. 

What do they signify at the end of each placement game?
Are you talking about the competitive points?
You might be talking about competitive points.
You'll be happier playing the game without knowing what they are 
Currently these points are only used for buying gold weapons.
You earn 15 points for a win, and 5 for a draw. At the end of the season, you gain a bunch more points based on your skill rating (SR) at that time.

When you get 3000 points, you can buy a golden gun for your favourite hero!
They're just stuff you accumulate from winning and ranking up and are used to buy golden guns.
^^ This guys knows. CP's are only for golden guns man, that's it. go to the hero gallery, choose a hero, then go to the bottom and choose weapon. you'll now notice that there is a golden weapon that cost those lovely purple Competitive points. Also just so you know that golden weapon isn't locked to any specific skin you choose, it's for every skin for THAT hero. so when you get enough CP, choose wisely :)

Best way to train aim tracking - interval aim tracking
Hello my fellow redditors, I have tried alot of ways to practice aim in the past. and I actually came up with the one thats the best for me. since it is in high intensity, it involves intervals (it will be explained in the video that I link you)
what you want to do is to play against two lucio bot and every time that one lucio boops you track the next one.
Its hard to explain exactly how to do this, you should try to watch the video and understand yourselves :D

https://youtu.be/Zmbwht8ipz4

I will link the track here as soon as it is uploaded

update :
the practice track is up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hl-C5yi2EMAI think it's a very useful method to begin with. It's difficult, it's frustrating and not super fun, but that is how most trainings are. This is why, watching the video I thought to myself that I like your approach to the concept of "training" more than the technique itself. I think it's worthwhile to re-emphasize here.

When you are "training", you need to be forcing yourself beyond your capacity. This is very important. Training must feel strenous and difficult. It must feel hard. It must be an activity that forces you beyond your potential so much that you cannot continue doing it for an extended period of time. You must be pushing yourself to try to do something you cannot do very well. That's training. If a method you are following does not force you or challenge you in any way, that method can be called "warm-up" at best, but not "training".

It should go without saying that all trainings should be strenous but not all strenous activities are training. 

I also like the approach of your intervals where you give breaks, which should provide you with the time window to do a bit of self assesment where you ask yourself if what you are doing is forcing you/lets you acquire or perfect a useful skill. 

Keep those methods coming.
The only thing cringy is how many times you said the word cringy. Its your method just own it and be confident instead of saying cringy a billion times.
I'll be giving this a try. I only just started doing practice drills a couple weeks ago and it's true that I've noticed that after several minutes I begin to lose focus so I can definitely see how the interval method would have some merit.

Is there a reason you don't actually shoot during the drill? It seems like getting the hit markers and headshot dings would be good feedback to help reinforce the behaviors that lead to good performance.
Updated the link to the track
Interesting concept, i may not do the exact training you do, but introducing rest periods sounds like a good idea.
I have gotten my aim much closer to how it used to be in my prime simply using person vs person AIM servers. If you search aim in custom game there will be "AIM practice - PVP" servers you can join. It's a nonstop skirmish with 0 respawn time and most are balanced nicely towards aiming. You get to nonstop practice your aim and mechanics against real people over and over and it's actually pretty fun to top it off.

 My aim used to be literally on the same level as the pros in quake 3 but I took a 5+ year break from gaming and lost all of my muscle memory from it. Just a few weeks of playing in these servers has helped get my aim closer to where it used to be than the whole rest of my time in Overwatch combined and I have played since open beta. I would highly recommend it. You see a decent amount of GM/top500 players in there honing their skills if that's any more testament to their usefulness. I found that I was having a REALLY hard time tuning my aim while having to worry about objectives, cooldowns, ults, and all the other worries of Overwatch. This removes all of those and lets you focus on solely your aim! There is also no better place to practice a hero you want to learn minus the few that don't really work well in there.

Just beware of the ones made by lower level players that use whacky settings. Some people have this weird idea that turning gravity down and messing with the speed of movements and jumps will help them. I recommend stearing clear of those servers. 
With FFA/Deathmatch added to the game, wouldn't DM'ing for a long time be a ether practice? If not, why? I'm always trying to practice my aim but don't feel a lot of progression.
Your idea looks fine, but I'd have 1 issue with it. If you want to practice that every day the track itself will get boring and annoying pretty fast. Also it may not sound good for some people who don't really like that kind of music. A clip with only that chick saying when to start and stop so you could play your own music over it could be a nice option.
A better method would be to put a 1000 hours into Quake III and play on Railgun only servers.   That will perfect your accuracy, lead times, and speed of aiming.
Or you do as I do. Play the game a lot for a year and stay with an shit aim

So your quit for a month and when you go back, after 1 hour of playing you're killing Pharah / Genji / Tracer / Doomfist by yourself with Zenyatta.

What changed? I don't know, but my aim suddenly improved and I'm feeling like an god!

Really, if anyone else get this, please contact me, I'm trying to understand what changed XD
BRO!  You are getting me hyped up to train!!
thanks!
Reposting my comment from his expansion thread here as is relevant to your comment here too:

Totally agree. 

Practice doesn't make perfect. Practice makes permanent. Only perfect practice makes perfect. 

If you're only practice is with completely unknown values, you can easily practice really bad aim and habits. Which you then have to un-train later. 

Overwatch is my first FPS on pc. If I don't warm up for a minute or two in the training range I often end up missing stuff all night. Not always, but I see a difference if I just jump straight in. 

The difference is practicing with known values to adjust your skills to a known value. If the bot is always in the same spot, and you always miss to the lower left, you know you need to adjust your aim up and to the right. If you miss in an actual game or even against Anna bots, who knows.  

After getting your reactions to a reliable baseline THEN you can make intelligent adjustments against real players. You need both. 

I'm sure there are people that "never had to do this," but chances are they just took the longer route of doing all of it against players. Congratulations, you're among the lucky few that happened to accidentally practice it correctly. Play time is no guarantee of good aim. Right next to this post was another "I've been playing for x number of years and still miss. What do?" post. 

Not all of us have 14 hrs a day 3 months out of the year, and 20 hours a week the rest of the time to brute force our way to good aim. For those of us with spouses, kids, jobs, etc we need to approach this intelligently, with practice routines etc. There's no shame in that. And there's no superiority for either approach. Just what works for the individual. 

I appreciate the comment.
the reason is that im trying to train my aim tracking.
when shooting the enemys you will automatically repair your tracking by using a fast reflex towards the head. the method tries to get you to minimize the amout that you will have to reflex towards the shot.
also, by shooting you also train things like controlling the spray.. it might be good but it will not train your tracking
Combination of both will do the best. 
Ill explain it later, gonna make a video about it
I can do so if you guys want it
Taking a break can help you to remove bad habits. When you come back to the game, you will be focused on trying to relearn the game and be as good as you used to be. This means that you are actively thinking about improving. If you stopped improving in the past, it's because you relied on habits and stopped thinking about how to improve.
Did you get gud?
Did you quit out of frustration? If you did, you probably felt better (i.e. more confident) in yourself and your aim, so you did better. Taking a break is one of the most important steps to improvement for anything.

You had the better aim in you all along, great work! :)
Yes!
I tend to go in mini auto pilot when i pull the trigger.  by not firing, it just reinforces the tracking.  I like it.
Awesome. I hope you mention applications like Aim Hero as well to give a better understanding on the topic.
Gud AF!

Putting my Zeny Marbles at the forehead of my enemies with proud!

I can even tease on open chat in order to trigger them allowing an easier win ♥
Quit because I was working on two jobs while studying XD

Now I managed time and found time to play 1 hour / day + all day on weekends.
FYI if you are ever wondering why you are getting the downvotes, it's because that "teasing" can lead to toxicity and overall leading to a unhappy environment for both sides of the match. Like a little joking around is fun, but don't be toxic! Good luck! Also, you're coming off a bit arrogant, and I'm not sure if that's your intent or not, but just be mindful.
Maybe your aim was bad from being tired?

I'm glad that you've found the time to enjoy yourself now. :)

Have a nice day!

I think my aim has been getting worse over time
I've been playing Overwatch since launch, never really took any significant breaks longer than a week. I would like to think that I've been improving but it almost looks like my aim is getting worse.

Good aim last year:
https://youtu.be/QUCDX16nfl8

Bad aim now:
https://youtu.be/U9He7wWHZNs

What can I do to stop this?Take a break for a while. Don't play any FPS during the break. If you do play games, stick to single player ones and relax. Have a steam game that you bought on sale with 5 minutes in it? Finish it. Have a few? Finish a few more. Get back into the gym, study for that test coming up, pick up a hobby that's easy to get into. Something to occupy your time.

Come back in 3 weeks or so and ease yourself back into it with arcade modes and some casual games. 

I've had this problem in CS and Battlefield, and this strategy is what helped me get back into it. I think it's just "subconscious burnout", if you will. What I mean by that is you're getting fed up with the game but don't even realize it yet, so you aren't putting in the effort you used to when you 100% enjoyed the game.

Something to consider, but we may not have the same problem so don't take the words of a random internet stranger as gospel.
Could it be your crosshair?
I personally wouldn't think this to make such a difference but maybe for you it does.
Try it out.
Do you do training routines? Do you use csgo workshop maps or Aim Hero?
For me, the longer I've played, the more I think about the next step and steps after that. I often find myself shooting at who I need to, but thinking too much about the follow up and not actually securing that first kill. You definitely gain knowledge from putting the hours into something, anything, but you can't forget to focus in the moment and finish the FIRST step before you get too far ahead of yourself. 

In this instance, and again this is just my experience, but complete map awareness/enemy movement is ideal, but sometimes I lose track of the enemy right in front of me and I'm forced to play reactively to the enemy's primary engagement. It's hard to deal with a blinking tracer, ghosting reaper, or diving genji when I'm eating a Reinhardt charge to the face. Narrowing my focus back down to the basic enemy movements and potential for engage has helped me a lot. 

I don't know if this will help, and your problem may be as simple as changing sensitivity, but I've found that a clear and present mind is definitely more beneficial than not. 
Show some competitive game play. In my opinion your aim won't change that much, it's the positioning and you game sense that can be different. Watch some pros...

I ask for competitive game play because in the "bad video" you had no tanks. You won't be able to carry as mcree if you are in your normal skill range, team comp and game sense matter most
You can't stop the ageing process. 
nope

never played csgo and the only training routines I'm doing are occasional ana bots.

but I didn't do either of those back then either, I don't see why my aim would worsen.
lol... I am 17. I don't think it's aging. 
I doubt its the aging process.


lol, it can be.

A fun new combo is Lucio Roadhog.
With Roadhog's mobile healing, having a Lucio to speed boost him when he goes in and out to hook targets is really powerful and fun. Lucio speed boost + Roadhog ult is a good combo to clear the objective
Lucio/anything is fun since there's mobile healing and a speed burst for when you go in
Lucio+ any short range character is a fun combo 
Lucio x Reaper is my all time favorite duo 
Lucio + Symm + DVa in 3v3
Lucio mercy and sym. Dmg boost the sym

I feel like I have regressed as a player due to ladder anxiety and QP spam.
I've noticed that in the last two seasons, I have regressed as a player.  
Mechanically, Game-Sense wise and in my positioning.  

I've had major ladder anxiety due to being fearful of toxicity, so my mainstay in the last couple of months have been in QP and I've noticed my degradation as a player.  

I'm not sure if this happens to other people who play only one game mode constantly but my autopilot has been pretty permanent as of late. In the latter half of S5 I bought an alt account for DPS and I noticed the huge improvement in my aim and altogether game sense but after a while I went back to my bad habits of spamming Quickplay as my friends list consists mostly of QP players.  

As a solo queuer, does anyone else encounter degradation in their skills if they constantly play ranked?  
At times I have encountered auto pilot during the rare times I touch ranked but it's not nearly as bad as when I play Quickplay where I feel like my Tracer, Soldier and Zarya practice just goes to waste due to not having solid compositions.  


I really want to improve and I'm not sure what the point of this post is but I'd like to know if there's any of you who play tons of QP and feel like you're not improving because of it.  

I try to practice Tracer but it only comes down to mechanics improvement but never having a Tank in my team to draw aggro to learn when to engage/disengage, Try to practice Winston but never having solid healers, practice my Mcree but never having a Rein with me.  

Is there *any sort of value you can get from QP besides learning aim?*. 

I feel as if the only heros I've ever gained improvement with in QP are support heros because they're jobs and positioning are so obvious but with any other role, I feel like ass.  

My DPS is decent but not as consistent as Ana or Zen despite my hours being mostly spent on DPS altogether (the importance of picks and target priority doesn't matter in QP) and let's not even talk about how terrible I am with Tanks. Any of you improve in QP or am I just alone on this matter?  

I might even make ranked my permanent mode over QP if these keeps up. Might have to suck up the SR loss in exchange of improving. DM is much better mechanical practice than QP and doesn't get you into bad habits.
I like to watch streams to get me motivated and in the mood for comp.


Also taking a break can do wonders.
I want to offer you another Point of view.

Quickplay like competitive has a matchmakingsystem. It might not be that strict, in fact I am pretty sure it is not, but it is there and you often Play with and against People of the same SR (you can check their profiles if they played comp)


Now as you started the game you felt strong. You carried games and you had a high Impact. The game recognizes this. Your MMR rises. As your MMR rises the enemies you match with get stronger too. Suddenly they start to move. They use their skills and goddammit they shoot back and might even kill you. As this happens the same skill you had before is of less, or better saying equal, value compared to the enemy Team.

While it might feel you´ve gotten worse it might just be the case that you have been matched with better enemies.
A problem I have is that in qp I just... don't care enough I guess? I can't properly focus on playing well the way I can in comp and now dm. Qp is autopilot mode for me, which was horrible up until the release of dm since it was the only way I could warm up. Interestingly, it would take me like 1-2 hours of playing qp to finally feel like I was aiming okay (I play McCree), while with dm I can literally just do 2 games and feel like I can jump into comp. I reckon it's bc dm is much more compact, you're constantly fighting (= shooting at, usually smaller, targets that are trying to kill you back), while with qp you can be stuck at a choke bc nobody wants to group up and/or switch (not that I'm complaining, I'm one of those dps onetricks that'll exclusively play dm from now on), death timers are longer, there aren't constant duels etc.

Like, tldr, I autopilot really hard in qp bc it doesn't matter, so I don't give a shit, which makes it super hard to use it for practice/warmup. While in comp I really wanna rank up, and in dm I love trying to outduel higher elo people (I'm plat and get a decent amount of high dia+ in my matches), plus I actually care about my comp/dm stats (mostly accuracy for the latter since I use it for warming up on McCree).
Never play quick play again. DM/TDM warm up -> Competitive

Nothing you learn in quick play will translate well to competitive outside of mechanics and DM/TDM are both better for that. 

In fact Quick play teaches you to not trust your team, which is not the mindset you should have in Competitive. It's for this reason I've never liked the idea of "practicing" in quick play and instead just played a different account or some custom game. 
Degradation from QP is bound to happen as it's not a good environment for improving in the first place. Trolls, toxicity, lack of teamwork, lack of giving a damn, and everything else that is negative can be found in QP. 

Also, you have an alt account so why are you worried about ladder anxiety and SR loss?



Now with deathmatch patched in i don't see myself playing QP anymore. If I want a classic Overwatch team game experience I play Comp. If i want to practice mechanics I play DM. QP is more or less deathmatch, but with longer respawn time and time-consuming map objectives (no I don't want to practice on a 2cp map objective where you only get stomped by the defending team). 
I have gone through many days where I feel completely worthless as a player and feel like I'm only getting worse the harder I try to improve. Regardless I've stayed with it just cause I love the game so much and I can't go a day without it. Comp is definitely better practice. Qp is only good for aim and messing around. 
SR loss is part of the game though, Opferlamm made a good point that as you gain SR/MMR in your case, your opponents get more difficult, and you have to adapt and come out on top. You eventually lose in either QP or CP, and your SR/MMR drops. The key is you have to know when to take a break. 

Usually if I lose 2 games in a row I'll back off for awhile, play quick play or take an hour or two break and work on homework or something. It is so much less devastating to lose two games and then take a break and come back and win three over losing 2 games, getting angry and enforcing bad habits by continuing to play after losing a few games in a row. Taking a break not only makes it so you don't get put with the same toxic players game after game, but it also gives you a break to regroup and refocus. 
I used to queue ranked and I was low gold, deranked to silver in Season 4 and I only play Quickplay now. I also used to get lots of ranked anxiety. I can't really say if I improve by just doing QP but it's more fun for me that way. I have also started playing other mobas and I get ranked anxiety for those too and I just choose what's unranked in those games.

I used to play roadhog a lot and D'va, but I think both are gutted now so I a trying to readjust to dps heroes like pharah, soldier 76, tracer and reaper to get good at them. I also play Ana and mercy a lot. Maybe someday I will get back in ranked.
I'm kind of in a similar situation as you are because all of my friends only play quickplay because they always get ranked low in comp. So I end up playing lots of QP so what I do is use the time to practice heroes I'm totally shit at (pretty much any tank and other DPS and supports I'm not totally comfortable with like genji and zen) so I still get something out of of the time I spend in QP.
I've improved alot playing soldier from spamming QP. Die less in comp and its good for when you need to duel people.

Although a hero like Sombra is kind of impossible to practice in QP. 

Having two accounts is nice for learning imo, I've got one in gold and one in low diamond, I can play the heros I am not as used to om the gold.
I agree it's better mechanical practice but it can certainly get you into bad habits. If you're playing it to win, it's all about getting the killing blow. That can make a winning strategy putting yourself in a terrible position and dying just so you can pick up a kill (situationally... obviously you don't want to let the score leader get an easy kill on you).
It has been available for 2 days. 
Watching alucards videos makes me want to play so much. 
I don't think MMR has anything to do with the lack of effort i put into QP. 
This as well. 
Same I can't take qp seriously 
Yeah I walked into quickplay for the first time in a couple months.  It's just... the worst.   Avoid it.
That's true but it's so obviously a different game mode that your gamesense for ranked shouldn't be affected.

This may change once the DM map pool expands though.
I play TDM instead for this reason. 
Right, but now you can and probably should never play QP again.
Well the DPS one tricks that always complain about QP having too many DPS definitely should.
Depends on the hero.

Еlbоw hаngіng vs оn dеsk: whісh theoretically shоuld gіvе suреrіоr аіm?
[Hanging](http://static.hltv.org/images/galleries/6335-full/1417889610.5902.jpeg)

[on](https://imgur.com/wq4wzji) [desk](https://i.ytimg.com/vi/ljsGpX7vuM8/hqdefault.jpg)

аskіng lоw sеnsіtіvіtу аrm аіmеrs100% personal preference.
It depends on desk size, plus getting a in a confortable position. I don't do it, I play with 2/3 of my arm in the desk, and I'm fine (4270 top), 800 DPI and 5 sens (which may fluctuate to 4.5 to mccree and soldier), 5.5 for heroes like pharah, genji, tracer, junkrat, lucio, and 6.5+ for heroes like reinhardt and monkey.
To avoid issues with your neck/shoulder make sure at least some of the forearm is on the table if you play for longer periods at a time. 
You're probably more likely to move from your shoulder if your elbow is hanging. If it is resting on the table you might not be inclined to slide it all around, resulting in more of an elbow-based aim. Which again, is still up to you for what you prefer 
Errr make sure u that you're elbo makes a 90 degrees angle , and move your arm for close tracking and wrist for longer distances tracking, keep your back straight , and make sure to stretch before u start playng, do lots of 1-2-3 minutes breaks! 
How often did you ask about arm posture now? When the ever recurring answer is 'personal preference', take a hint.
Does [this](http://static.hltv.org/images/galleries/6335-full/1417889610.5902.jpeg) have enough forearm on the desk? 
you mean [this](https://i2.wp.com/dhzyn09yup6mu.cloudfront.net/forearm-upperarm-90-degrees.jpg?resize=550%2C300&ssl=1)?
[removed]
I would recommend a little bit more. But its better than an elevated forearm.
I only sit like this when working by a PC. When gaming I have my arm in with the same angle but without armest, just my wrist on the desk.

Key for me is having a adjustable chaif and a good desk, try to sit straight up aswell. 
Hey, it's pretty sad to have an account just to shit talk on the internet. Maybe after some self-reflection you'll find a healthier outlet for your rage.
is there any aim advantage in having your whole lower arm on the desk?
U mad? Take a hint and fuck off.
I am no pro player, though i would assume it would depend on sensitivity and style. Though i can promise you neck/shoulder issues is not worth the aim advantage if there were one present. 
Am I correct in saying [this](https://imgur.com/wq4wzji) would cause shoulder issues of your left arm, since the keyboard is in your lap?
Would depend on if your body is facing the screen or if you are sitting parallell to the desk

Any tips for ana and lucio?
Hi! Im somewhat new to the game, and i want to be a "healer main". 2 of my most played heroes are Lucio and Ana, usually i heal around 6-8k on avarage as Ana and around the same with lucio. i dont know if that number is good enough or not, i guess you guys can be the judge of that. Is there some general tricks i should know about? I kinda just picked up the characters and started doing things my own way, but im not sure its the right way. Thanks in advance.For Lucio, I would STRONGLY advise that you check out Jamie Allegro's wallride basics video, located here: https://youtu.be/YH0ePK5ia50.

As for playing Ana, in my experience if your aim is fantastic, she'll feel quite good right off of the bat, otherwise you're not going to be getting the value out of her kit you might otherwise. 

Try to nade in such a way that you're hitting both enemies and allies at the same time; combo it with a Zarya Grav for example. 

Hold your sleep dart for when you really need it (for when a flanking Genji or Tracer come looking for some sweet Grandma booty or a Rein charges one of your allies / Roadhog hooks one of your allies / Mcree tells you what time it is / Soldier is kind enough to inform you he's looking at you, etc)

Be vocal when you have your ult. Pay attention to the score screen (tab) and who has their ult. Tell your soldier, who has his ult, "Soldier, I have nano, use your ult and I'll hit you". This isn't specific to Ana, but try to coordinate BEFORE the fight so it's not a surprise to your ally when you Nano them and ults don't get wasted in the process.

If, and only if, nobody on your team needs healing at a particular moment, feel free to take a couple of shots at a squishy. Just don't get caught reloading when someone needs your healing.

Also, you can and should quickscope with Ana, as her scoped shots are hitscan instead of projectile. The obvious exception being if you're right up close and it's just far more convenient to no scope to heal. Notably, if you're trying to hide somewhere, scoped shots will leave a trail which indicates to the enemy team where you are, so no scoping might be advised here as well.

Wow, that turned out to be way longer than I thought. Check out Gale Adelade on YouTube / Twitch for some pretty top notch Ana play. Hope that helps =)
Lucio main here.

He's an off-healer, if he's the only healing the team has you may want to consider switching to Ana or Mercy. Learn how to wallride and learn each maps shortcuts and flanks. Pick a buddy to stay with, I usually pick the tank as it gives him more sustain allowing him to play a bit more aggressive. Speed boost is very important, definitely use it right out of spawn unless you're right next to the action, definitely use it to help a team avoid an ult, definitely use it on your team, don't just outrun everyone and speed in to be the first to die.

You're the team babysitter. What you shoot at draws the teams attention like little arrows pointing at the threats. You also make a great flanker just don't overextend, flank to break up the enemy team to help push your team through a bottleneck then get back with your buddy. Your ult is best used to counter another, especially Zarya. You're especially weak against roadhog.

Professor Ganymede has some great videos for tips on Lucio.
As far as Lucio, you really have to read your team and the specific game you're playing it. It's almost impossible to say "Play Lucio *this* way" because his play is dependent on what your team is doing. 

If your second healer is doing well, you can speed boost your flankers in. Reaper and McCree flanking with a speed boost can catch the enemy off guard and give them the slight advantage they need. If you're Reaper has his ult up, it's even more fun, push him in deep, behind the shields if you can.

Speed boost can also be used defensively, especially against Roadhog's hook. If someone gets hooked, speed boost them back and to the second healer, or heal them yourself as much as possible. Usually I will do a half and half, I'll amp it up under speed boost to get them back, then switch off as soon as they're clear, to give them a little bit of health back. If your deep flankers or like Sombra or Tracer are retreating, you can switch to speed boost to get them back to safety.

If you see a Mei, Sym or Zarya chasing someone, switch to speed boost, it will give them that extra edge so that the enemy can't retreat fast enough. Bubbled with Zarya, you two can melt a DVa.

Lucio's boop isn't just for environmental kills. It's a really good tool to push people out of position. Push an Orisa out from behind the shield. You can boop a Reinhardt to push him out of position, or to get him to drop his shield for a split second. The boop will even redirect a Rein charge. Your boop isn't going to get kills most of the time, but if you're annoying enough with it, the enemy will start making mistakes and hopefully your DPS or tanks can capitalize on it.

The boop works the opposite way for Mei and Zarya, you can push them back and speed boost to get your friendly out. Symmetra's beam is a bit harder to break, but with the boop, speed boost, I can sometimes get them out of her range.

The boop is also great to keep the enemy on the right side of a shield. If you're behind your Rein or Orisa, enemies sometimes try to creep on them, boop them back to keep your tanks safe.

You may also run into a dive setup. A Winston, a Genji, Sombra/Tracer. You want these characters to go fast at the choke, speed boost them through. You also want to be in range to pull them out when they need health, so you you have to judge where you're safe and where you're not. If you're team is pushing left or right to cover, you want to switch to speed boost them through the choke, even if they're not divers, then heal them once you're past the choke.

King of the Hill maps, always speed boost out of spawn. *Always*. This gives your team a speed advantage and by the time you get to the point, your cool down will be close to done. If I have a second healer doing well, I'll speed boost the flankers out of spawn on a payload map.

You *really* have to read your team. I can't stress that enough. Keep an eye on how your second healer is doing. If they're struggling to heal, or being attacked a lot you may have to play less speed boost and more healing. If you don't have a dive set up, make a home by your Tank and you can speed boost them, or heal them accordingly. Watch the game and you can speed boost out to heal your front runners, like Genji or Tracer, then jump back by your tank.

Don't be by your other healer unless they need healed. Healers are targets, and splash damage weapons like Pharah's rockets will take you both out, which is obviously a bad thing. So read the game, and see what's happening. Sometimes the best thing I can do is work to keep my Mercy/Ana alive, because they can technically outheal me if played correctly. 

Work on your game sense. Lucio really isn't just a healer. He can heal, but he can disrupt, force mistakes and force a kill.

Your ult is a shield. Usually (unless I am reading that my team needs health), my ult is followed by a speed boost, especially if Rein is swinging that hammer of the gods around. He's now a speeding blender. That ult can break a choke or clear a point when used correctly.

The ult can also be used to block damage. Rip tire, Soldier's ult, Pharah's ult, if you drop the ult and speed boost, you're more likely to have survivors. When Zarya ults, read the game and see if it's worth dropping. If Zarya's ult is combined with another ult, sometimes the ult just isn't enough.

Learn to wallride. You're a lot harder to hit by DPS when you can wallride well. It's a great tool for escape or for attack.

Your weapon also does more than boop. It will assist in kills, if not kill itself. It will help break down shields a little bit, but you want to be careful at chokes, because sometimes you're just feeding the enemy healer's ults. 

Your healing is going to change, it's dependent on what style of game you're playing and it's dependent on how well you're other healer is doing. If you're speed boosting friendlies in and getting offensive assists and your second healer is doing the bulk of the healing, that's okay. You're an off-healer, rarely used as a primary healer.

Learn to defend yourself. Sometimes the enemy attacking you gets blinders, if you can defend yourself long enough to get them back to your tanks/dps, you've picked one of their DPS. Dragging Genjis into a swinging hammer is always fun. Keep an eye on your other healer too, they may need some help too.

Learn how much damage you can take before you need to get the hell out. I'll push forward with my flankers, get them as far as I can, become a target, then peel out. The enemy will usually be focused on you, because you're a healer. Distract them so that your flankers have a chance, then bug out. Your healing is only effective if you're alive, so stay alive as much as humanly possible.

If there is an ult being dropped in which people need to take cover, speed boost and amp it up. It will help get people to cover. It can make it more difficult for the enemy's ult to be effective if everyone is moving fast to cover. 

Lucio is an absolute blast to play. You really kind of push the team around to get them where they want to be, then heal them, then shuffle them around some more. You have to know how each character plays in order to be an efficient Lucio. You heal them and make them more effective. 

I know it sounds stereotypical, but he really is more than just an off-healer if he's used effectively. He can drastically change the pace of the game, while disrupting the DPS and tanks. If my second healer is just killing it, I'll start running with my Tracer and Sombra, speed boosted they're kind of terrifying.

Just to reiterate, you really need to learn how to read the game and what is happening, your game sense has to be spot on. You have to know how your DPS dive, how and where your tanks should be, you need to know when to amp it up, you need to know when to speed boost and to heal, all while defending yourself or doing as much damage as possible.

More than anything have fun with Lucio. He's a fast and fun character to play. Don't get frustrated. He has multiple play styles, you just need to know what's going on in the game. Always, always, always be on the lookout for an environmental kill. There is nothing more satisfying than booping a full-healthed tank to their death.


A couple things I've learned to do as Ana, which can be taught over the internet, are how to position. Make sure you stay back enough to see most of your team and play near health packs (so you don't waste nades on yourself). High ground is always preferred for this reason because you can see a lot more of the area (since you can see over people's heads) and heal a lot more effectively. 

Use bots in custom game to practice sleep darting (you can lower the cooldown signficantly). Lucio bots are great for this. You'll see an instant improvement within a week, trust me. 

Always try to move when you are scoped, even just AD shafting. You are too easy of a target if you stand still.

Best of luck to you!
Most propably you will get tons of answers. Therefore some minor things from me.

Ana: Aim for the Body. You cannot headshot and the hitboxes are larger at the feet / Body. You will hit more shots.

Lucio: If you got a second healer speedaura might prevent more damage than healaura could heal up. If the Teams just poke each other heal though.

Lucio: Your rightclick is affected by where you look. Look to the right to send him flying down the gap there. Look up to send him flying further backwards...

both:Focus on healing at first. Multitasking is for later on.

Lucio: Keep trying to wallride. It might be frustrating in the beginning but it is  worth it.

Thanks for the help guys, appreciate it :)
Video linked by /u/_Tock_:

Title|Channel|Published|Duration|Likes|Total Views
:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:
[Lucio Wall Ride Fundamentals](https://youtu.be/YH0ePK5ia50)|Jamie Allegro|2016-06-02|0:04:55|19,180+ (99%)|705,171

> July  22nd, 2016 update: The Ana patch removed wall ride's...

---

[^Info](https://np.reddit.com/r/youtubot/wiki/index) ^| [^/u/_Tock_ ^can ^delete](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=_youtubot_&subject=delete\%20comment&message=dmecv42\%0A\%0AReason\%3A\%20\%2A\%2Aplease+help+us+improve\%2A\%2A) ^| ^v2.0.0
> (for when a flanking Genji or Tracer come looking for some sweet Grandma booty or a Rein charges one of your allies / Roadhog hooks one of your allies / Mcree tells you what time it is / Soldier is kind enough to inform you he's looking at you, etc)  
  
my fucking sides


To add to the "definitely use it right out of spawn unless you're right next to the action", if you have to get through a choke (like on 2CP or Hybrid maps) save Amp It Up until you get to the choke so you can just speed boost your team through it instead of saving maybe 3 seconds of time between spawn and engagement point.

OWUL Season 3 Signups are OPEN!
 **Season 3 of OWUL is here!**

**What:** An Overwatch competitive league for players of all skill levels, from Bronze to GM

**Who:** PC Overwatch players in the Americas and EU regions, in teams of 6-8

**When:** Signups are open until Friday, September 8th. Games begin Saturday, September 16th. Playoffs conclude Saturday, November 4th. Full schedule on Website

**Where:** <https://www.owuniversity.com/> and our official [Twitch Stream](https://twitch.tv/owuniversity) for all matches and special events!

**How:** Get a team of 6-8 players around your skill level and use the Signup Form on our website! Find teammates on our discord, your discord, or r/overwatchlft

**Why:** Because Overwatch was meant to be a team game, no matter what your SR Any chance of an AUS league at some point?
Dang, this looks pretty cool! I'd miss the final 2-3 weeks though. So maybe next year.

Hope a stream gets set up for it.
Hi! I'm interested in signing up with my team, but we're all from Fiji. However, we play on Americas server.
Are we eligible?
AUS/ASN and console leagues were both something we wanted for Season 3, but we had larger priorities that forced us to put those on hold. Fingers crossed for Season 4.
[Yup we do!](https://www.twitch.tv/owuniversity), also our website has links to our social media accounts as well.
Yup! As long as you're comfortable with the ping and any time-zone related issues, you're welcome to sign up!

Damage Sheet requested
Anyone has a list of the damage sorted from lowest to highest for each Ability and Base Damage?

As a Mercy player, I some times wonder which of the remaining heroes on my team I should Damage Boost.Base DPS of ordinary weapons (not accounting for reloads) is as follows:

- Bastion sentry config: 525

- Reaper: 280

- McCree alt-fire: 270 (if fully-loaded)

- Tracer: 240

- Junkrat: 200 

- Roadhog: I've seen conflicting reports of whether he fires 1.3 shots per second or 4 shots over 3 seconds (1 and a third shots per second). If it's the former, he has 195 dps; if it's the latter, 200.

- Torbjorn alt-fire: 187.5

- Soldier: 171

- Bastion recon config: 160

- Sombra: 160

- D.Va: 146.6 repeating

- McCree primary fire: 140

- Pharah: another case of conflicting reports; she either fires 1.1 shots per second (132 DPS), or 1 and a ninth shots per second (133.3 repeating DPS)

- Orisa: 132

- Widow assault mode: 130

- Hanzo: 125 (when firing perfectly-timed full-charge shots, which is his peak DPS because of how the scaling works; however if he's getting crits then he doesn't need a completely full charge against most characters -- especially with Mercy boost on -- so his lethality potential over time is better than 125 DPS sounds)

- Symmetra stage-3 primary fire: 120

- Torbjorn primary fire: 116.6 repeating

- Zenyatta: 115

- Genji alt-fire: 112

- Mercy: 100

- Baby D.Va: 98

- Widowmaker sniper mode: 96 (this is a similar situation to Hanzo where taking fully-charged shots for 120 base damage as soon as they're fully charged is her highest DPS potential, but she doesn't actually need full charge if she's getting crits, especially since she gets x2.5 damage on crits instead of x2. So her lethality over time is better than her DPS sounds) 

- Zarya primary fire: 95 (keep in mind that her energy charge is applied as a flat percentage boost, so at 100% charge she has 190 DPS)

- Mei alt-fire: 90

- Genji primary fire: 84 

- Reinhardt: 83.3 repeating

- Lucio: 80

- Ana: 75

- Torbjorn hammer: 68.75

- Winston: 60

- Symmetra stage-2 primary fire: 60

- Zenyatta alt-fire: 57.5 (yet again, charge-up abilities look bad in terms of DPS; this is 230 base damage in one go, so quite devastating)

- Symmetra alt-fire: 55.5 repeating (and again. This one is up to 125 damage per hit, multiple hits possible; potentially devastating, though hard to hit.)

- Zarya alt-fire: 45 (again, remember her energy charge)

- Mei primary fire: 45

- Symmetra stage-1 primary fire: 30

Let me know if I forgot anyone. I'd have to get back to you on ranking the damage of abilities; I already had these numbers readily at-hand.
Well I can't really help but Junkrat does a lot of damage but don't ever boost him since it doesn't affect the damage.
this is a bad idea and i will explain why. there are abilites that are important to know how much damage they do and some that dont because they have a lot of shots so its almost impossible to say how much damage they output. things like shotguns or soldier are pretty usless if you know how much they do.

mccree: 70, 140 headshot

genji: dash 50, dragonblade 120

soldier: helix 100

junkrat: mine 120, primary 120, trap 80

pharah: direct hit 120

torb: primary 70, headshot 140

ana: primary 60, nade 60

mei: 75, headshot 150

rein: hammer 75, firestrike 100

hanzo: 125, headshot 250

widow: 120, headshot 300

zen: 46, headshot 92, discorded bodyshot 59, discorded headshot 119

other than those its not very useful if you know the damage
These are damages equally distributed in 1 second.  Most of the heroes,  especially the burst damage heroes,   deal more damage. 

For example:


**Junkrat** doesn't do 200 damsge in a second but rather 240 damage since his damage is constant and he can fire 2 in just shy of a second. 


The same goes for **Reinhardt**,  his damage in a second is actually 150. Swings twice in just short of a second. 
Beautiful, thank you!
Uh.... I believe it works, same with pharah
Mercy boost doesn't affect the tire, but otherwise she can boost Junk just fine.
Thanks for that.. because i was thinking, man my Hanzo headshots MOST people even when they are full charged, and two headshots will finish off almost anybody including tanks. so yah 250 makes more sense. 
I'm aware. It's also possible for every shooty class in the game, and half the tanks, and a few supports, to kill a 200hp character in 1 second or less. I was just trying to give OP an idea of how much standard-attack damage (because that's the numbers I had readily at hand) the different characters can crank out over time for the purposes of choosing who to boost for more than moment (like you would do for abilities like firestrike), discounting reloads (I've got those numbers too, though I think they're rarely relevant outside of a shield war) because why would you boost someone while they reloaded.

Edit: to put it another way, these numbers are not the full story but they are useful for quick abstractions. Like, knowing that Torb at shotgun range does more damage than Soldier but less than Roadhog is worth knowing when you're choosing which of them to boost.
Oh ok
yes and widow has 2.5 headshot multiplier so she does 300

Quick question: With the new junkrat mine changes, did they reduce the radius of his blast zone?
I swear I have thrown mines at players and denoted it only for it to exploded in front of there character but do absolutely no damage. Is there any hidden changes? Anyone else noticed this or am I just nuts? It's always been a bit fidgety. I don't think they've changed anything. There have been lots of times before the buff where I detonated my mine right next to someone and it did nothing. I don't know what the cause is but it happens.
They haven't, from what I've seen. This happens to me a lot, and sometimes I blame Overwatch's 32 (I think) servers.

Please correct me if I'm wrong about tickrate.
Cause: bad game
63 tick I think.

My friend blamed '20 tick servers' for his mccree inaccuracy until we found out they'd been 60+ tick for a year. Never letting him hear the end of it xD
They're lower tickrate on console, however.

Picking up Roadhog
Hi, I'm new to this game (level 15). I'm really loving this game so far and I enjoy playing pharah and junkrat. I enjoy both but I really want to learn roadhog. But whenever I search up I guide for him on youtube, the videos are all about him bing bad after his nerf. Can someone please give me advice on playing roadhog.

Thanks for all the replies you all have definitely converted me to becoming a road hog player. Stay with your team.  Try and call out in voice chat to have people focus whoever you hook.  Don't stay out in the open and feed ult charge.  Try and shoot your target first, hook, shoot and melee.  That's his best combo right now.   I find he's more useful as backline peel at this point.  He's still pretty strong with a decent zenyatta who discords the hooked.  
I'm a Roadhog player with 200+ hours on him, and I plan to main him again this season, so here is my opinion on playing him in his current form:

Roadhog no longer has the damage to try and play aggressively, so his role has become more about area control. I play around the objective/healers and make it difficult for diving flankers to exist around either. Hooking Genji or Tracer will almost always lead to a kill with any previous damage or any help, so if you can get used to their movement and land those hooks, you are already a good ways towards filling that role. The combo is still shoot/hook/shoot/melee, but it just doesn't kill as many people as it used to. If you don't have a flanker to kill, I would say the secondary focus of Hog is killing shields. Left click up close or right click from >8m away (right click is not useful inside of 8m because the scrap ball explodes at 8m but not closer) does a ton of damage to shields. After that just help with the fighting. It never hurts to just throw right clicks out from the payload as your dps does the heavy lifting, but don't get too crazy because you are a big target with a big head.

Some notes:

You can do a decent job bodyblocking for healers with the new Take A Breather, so you might be an ult battery like this but running in front of your Mercy and taking the bullets so she can get back around a corner is worth it.

You can fight very effectively with no heals but stay near a corner or some form of line of sight disruption. You can escape almost any fight with Take A Breather while running back around a corner, but Breather won't save you if they can just keep shooting you all the way through it.

I know this sounds obvious but hit your left clicks. Hog's damage is not what it used to be, but find a good sensitivity and work on your flicks because he will still win a lot of fights just from hitting a few left clicks up close. Mei/Symmetra/Reaper all think they are safe up close now and will try getting in your face, but they aren't as safe as they think. If you can hit left clicks in those fights you will win a ton of them and after getting them with a good close shot you can finish with hook very easily.

Don't get baited. Sometimes you get on a roll and kill a person or two and injure another or whatever, but don't get baited into chasing them too far. You are a huge target, and while Hog isn't as bad of an ult battery as some think, he will be if you get too aggressive. Learn when it's time to turn around and get back to safety.

This is all off the top of my head while I'm at work so I'm sure there is plenty more I'm forgetting but I'll edit if I think of anything worthwhile.
You can bait defence abilities like Genjus deflect by doing a Melee attack. The animation at first looks like you will hook them, but u dont and their ability is wasted so they are ready to get hugged to death =)

And please don´t believe this Roadhog is dead meme, just don´t. That might be true for high level pro play but not so true for the "normal" players.
A tip no one has said yet, he is AMAZING at staggering the enemy team. Often times people try to poke their head out and do some damage even though the rest of their team is dead. You can hook them and pull them into your whole team.

Ult charge is extremely important in this game, and Hog is sort of designed to counter ults specifically. His hook stops a lot of ults like Pharah, reaper, McCree, and his take a breather allows him to survive almost every ult in the game. So even though you feed, you can also counter ults. 
From my experience, top Roadhogs: **1)** Master the hook, followed by a headshot then melee to secure kills **2)** They take responsibility on the objective and will wait for teammates before going in to increase survivability **3)** Know when to retreat and heal if they're in a losing battle 
You should probably hit the gym and start lifting before you try and pick up roadhogg. Alternatively, yo u could start by trying to pick up one of the squishier characters to guage how much work you need to put in before picking up roadhogg will be reasonable goal.
Roadhog used to be able to one-shot pretty much any hero in the game. You could even hook a Winston and he would die to a follow up left or right click. Now this has been changed so people think he's bad. I mean he is difficult but people like Harbleu are still doing things with him. Even I played him earlier this week after so long and was able to make a difference for my team. You just have to do follow up left clicks and in general you need to rely on your left clicks more than your hooks
Simply put, the difference between a good and bad hog is your ability to out kill the amount of ult you feed the enemy, and your ability to land the "important/clutch" hook combos (hooking then killing an ulting genji, tac visor, etc)

You honestly shouldn't die much as hog if you are playing him properly.  If you are on PS4 you can shoot me a message on here and I'll play with you at some point and teach you some tips and tricks. 
The heal buff is quite significant. I'd say he's almost playable at this point. 
The new Roadhog essentially has two roles now. He is a dedicates shieldbuster, meaning his alt fire is one of the best ways to get rid of Orissa/Rein shields quickly. On the other hand, his hook is now more important than ever seeing as he lost his one shot ability. Now it is vital that it is used to drag enemies into your lines so they can be focused down. Hope this helps
As a guy who played Roadhog more than any other hero by miles (Like 66 hours vs 16 on my second best), don't fucking bother. Roadhog would be worth learning if this was pre-nerf but if it was, I'd be playing the game and not on here bitching about it.

Roadhog is a joke now and he wasn't that great to begin with, I only played him because he had a shotgun and he didn't die when somebody farted in his general direction hence why I mained guys like Gunzerker in Borderlands 2. His kit was completely reliant on one ability, if you couldn't land the hook then you might as well try to run like hell from the fight because your shit is too slow and inconsistent to do good damage. I swear, I've had people right next to me that I've LMB'd and it took out maybe 1/3rd of their health. What bullshit. If you miss the hook and you're up against a DPS and you can't run, you've already lost the 1v1 because they not only will they out-DPS you, they will do it much more consistently compared to the slow pellet-based rather than range-based shotgun. Even his ult is shit because Winston's does the exact same thing (Area control) and you get a health boost out of it AND you can't be slept cancelled.

If you really want to play a shotgun based hero now, pick Reaper. He didn't fill the void for me so I quit the game but it's your best option now. Roadhog is a fucking laughing stock at worst and a meme hero at best.
Check out Harbleu, MoonMoon or Taimou. They're some of the best hog players. 

Right click, hook then left click seems to be the effective combo for 200ish HP targets. 


Idk man, he's pretty heavy. I wouldn't try to do that by yourself.
I'm finding him *really* fun to play in deathmatch and team deathmatch. These modes won't teach you team play, but you can focus on landing hooks and getting a feel for his primary and alt fire.
If you're looking for videos to watch of people using him well - Moonmoon and Harbleu are both good people to look into. There won't be a ton of stuff about the new new roadhog just yet - but hang in there. Landing hooks is priority #1 - Practice!
Alot of these guys arent really giving tips they're just refrigerating the same BS people that say hes dead will tell you. 


Hogs gameplay can fall into 3 categories each one is as important as the last and they all feed into each other.

1. Positioning: Hog requires possibly the most specific positioning in the game especially after the nerf. Hogs gun is only viable at 2 different ranges
0-3m because everything past that the damage fall off is so incredibly high that you might as well not be wasting ammo.
-6-9m which is where his flak will burst and the same 3m until damage falloff. 
-Learn to only engage in a fight if you can juggle between 6-9m and getting closer, or 0-3m and finishing them when they run away to 6m.
-Flak only deals 50 damage before it explodes. But if you can manage to land a 6 meter Long Point blank shot you will still be able to almost one shot every 200 HP hero. 

2. Aim: You might think that because road hog has a gigantic midi shotgun he wouldn't have to consider aiming at you as much as aim in the general direction of you. That's where a lot of hogs get it wrong having a high accuracy is road hog is one of the most important parts of making him. Everything from where you shoot someone to how close they are to you will decide whether night you get destroyed by a DPS or are the one doing the destroying. Aim at the upper chest area with the normal fire to maximise your damage but never aim directly at the head. Hogs cone of fire is too large and his damage is too low for it to be worth it. Always aim for the center of mass. If your taller then the opponemt then aiming for the head and chest can work but it won't 1shot. Become a master of the Flak shot and youll never lose a flight. 

3. One shots: Some people will say that road hogs ability to one shot the cast has been removed. This simply isn't true all they've done is made it all what harder for the road hog to land them. Every single character in the game has a star Fox ask weak spot that if shot at will do maximum damage. The trouble is hook is incredibly unreliable hook 3.0 is ironically The most bugged version of hook to be put out and you're gonna have to work around that. You can land hook and for no other reason than server latency or poor LOS tracking it will break and the thing you are counting on to win the fight is now on an 8 second cooldown. Luckily for you Hughes only real job is to bring someone within a certain distance that never changes. You can replicate that result by engaging at the right distance and firing at the same spot you would with a hook to absolutely 1 shot alot of heros. 


All in all I think Roadhog is a flawed character I think he is a very niche pick but if performed well and at a very high skill level he can still be almost as effective as he was before the nerf but only as a DPS. Hog's days of tanking were left Behind the day they removed his ability to scare off the 200 HP heroes so don't expect anybody to fear you. In fact they're more likely to farm you than to run away so your job is to only engage when you are 100% certain that you are going to win the fight because if you're not sure then they will push the advantage and kill you every single time.     
Learn to peak with his right click and maintain safe position, if you get out of position have an idea of where you can escape to and abuse the heck out of his healing. His healing change is really really good and many people will underestimate. You are seeing videos of him being bad because of his previous massive damage and one-shot ability. He can still oneshot 200HP targets it just requires hook > Left Click and Melee perfectly. If you cant get the melee down than practice hitting his right click at a mid distance. He still does the same damage as before it just takes 5 shots instead of previous 4 but now he shoots faster. Dont be afraid to play Hog - like I said I really think people are underestimating his rework. As far as the hook goes try to hook someone into other people on your team around you. Stick near your team and if you are in voice call it out. "Hooked Ana lets punish". 

Have fun and welcome to playing hog. Best part is hooking and confirming a kill and having him do the terrible  -horrible laugh. Its like music to any hog mains ears. 
If you are simply trying to learn him, I suggest you start by leading your right clicks, or meatballs, as I like to call them. This, assuming you hit them, should put them in range of the hook-LMB combo. 

thats all I got, hope this helps :D
Roadhog's ult can break a Rein shield. 
He's not bad, he's different. Currently that difference is arguably less impactful, but I think time will tell.

As for advice on HOW to play Roadhog, nope, anything anyone tells you that you don't figure out for yourself is probably just going to impede your learning. Some people will make up arbitrary rules like "NEVER HOOK FIRST" -- its bullshit, playstyle is always situational, and for the most part you're going to be reacting to the state of the fight, not following a script.

As for whether you should play him -- no reason not to. He's still a powerhouse, and he's going to be collecting tears again this season (he got a buff like 2 days ago, he's been in a bad place for some months).
Don't listen too much to the community outcry. There will always be people who complain whenever there is a change. Roadhog is pretty strong right now (recently got a decent buff, but even before he wasn't as useless as people told he was). People just have a hard time adapting to another playstyle.

To actually answer your question, I'll try to give some general playstyle tips. 

* stay with your team
* Hit and run works pretty well. You come from behind a corner, try to go for a hook, do some more shots and retreat while taking a breather
* He is excellent at breaking shields. Spam right click to break them
* He has a sweet spot where he can dish out 150 damage with his right click, right after it explodes
* His ult is pretty situational and usually one of the weaker ults. You can use it on a single person if you find you need a little more damage (eg after hooking but you have to reload). It's strongest in close corridors where you knock people against a wall, or against stationary targets (orisa during fortify, people in graviton).
* You can stand close to a ledge, hook and turn towards the ledge, as long as you don't turn more than about 90 degrees. Some heroes are able to escape, so for those you should just go for a regular shot unless their ability is on cooldown (eg d.va boosters, winston jump). Heroes like genji and hanzo can just wallclimb so it doesn't work against them.
* Your take a breather gives you 50% damage reduction. You can use this to be a meat shield for a short time. It's also very useful against high burst: against mccree ult (time it right before he shoots), tracer bomb (if you're stuck, stand still. If you're already damaged, take a breather before the explosion. If you're full, you can wait for the explosion, which does 400 damage and heal right after to get 300 hp back), ...
RoadHog is great, but he changed.

Before = He was an DPS hero with 600 HP, his hook would pick almost everyone without even needing to aim properly, and you would be able to kill even a winston by just left clicking after hoocking.

This was to OP, so this is the new RoadHog:


1. You stay with your team

2. Keep track of the enemies, try to hook the ones out of protection

3. Call on voice that you hooked someone, in order to get help and kill him. Usually you will take 150~200 damage by yourself in a blink, but having your team to help will always secure the kill.

4. Keep doing this protective job, your main targets are Divers, Flankers and with luck an bad positioned support.

Extra: Use your fat body, put yourself between your ally and the enemy, you can tank 99% of the ultimates of the game and survive by using the healing, help your allies.

What you don't do:

1. Flank, do not flank with roadhog, this was an common thing for people to do before, but now it is a pretty bad idea.

2. Stay on the open and take hits that you really did not needed. Even if you're trying to farm your ultimate, you will give a lot more ult charge with your 600 HP
You are a brave one.

Though I don't know much about Roadhog, I will give you some advice on general hero balancing, since you're new.

Which is, heroes will continually flux between being balanced, OP, and bad. I made a point to learn Ana when people though she was bad. So now, even in the worst circumstances, I am a solid Ana. 

I reckon the same will happen with your Roadhog skills.

Hopefully someone else will give you some good, current Roadhog advice though. Since he's going through a lot of changes for the time being.
He's a big guy.
just switch heroes, roadhog isn't worth the hassle. additionally if you don't have team mates around you to kill the more mobile heroes like tracer, you're essentially just an ult battery for them
For the OP, when I was level 15, I had no idea what peeling was. "peeling" means "to peel a threat off of your healer". Basically, chase away a flanker so they don't kill your backline/healers. 
I think "stay with your team" is a huge point now after his damage nerf. He is no longer the solo flanker, but by all means if you have a good secondary to run with you and you want to do some huge disruption, you can do that. My brother mains Mei and, when he freezes and I R-click, everything dies. they try to run away, I hook, he freezes and it's over before it began. Hog can be used in almost every scenario. I do advise any new Hog players to be very aware of a couple things and to switch when:
> 1. A strong enemy Pharah
> 2. You have no Shields (Zarya, Rein, Orisa) - Hog is a secondary tank, a strong one in my opinion but if your enemy team is aware that you have no shields and they just blast you, it's over.
> 3. Everybody on your team is playing "flanks"

>> If any of those 3 are very apparent, or you just can't push through a choke because you are focused to hard, then you need to consider switching for the moment and help the team, feeding them a high HP hero kill will just create ults on their end. Depending on your level, some teams will literally LET YOU HEAL, just to kill you afterwards so they get more ult charge.  Know when this is happening and to have enough gamesense to switch.

Good Luck in Season 6!
Inaddition to this post learn to use and abuse his self-heal while moving around. If done correctly he simply will be very hard to kill. 
awesome stuff.  I would also say, master environmental kills as well.  anywhere that lucio baits boop, a roadhog can bait hook off a ledge.  
it's not a primary part of the kit by any stretch, depending on the map - ilios well - RH hook into well is life.
So do you think Hog is in an ok spot now? Were the buff on his e enough to bring him back? I've palyed him for some QP and he feels he can be played, but I wanted the opinion of someone more expert than me.
Hog is my main but I only have 20 hours on him. This is very insightful. 👍🏻
He's dead in the sense that he can't be played as he used to. He requires a whole different type or play style and I think that's what people are forgetting. Sure, he's not the killing machine he used to be, but he's pretty deadly with a good team that focuses your target and takes advantage of your hooks. 

Also, that's a really cool idea for baiting out deflects, I might have to try it out!
I wonder if the nerf to defense matrix was intended to sort of increase Hogs relative value as a defender against offensive ults...
Roadhog NEVER had an instagib ability, you had to pull a combo for "instakills". 
The old combo was hook->melee->LMB now you either need one hit more before OR after the combo so it goes like hook->shoot->LMB->shoot.  Because of an older patch the new hog needs to walk two steps before he can hit with melee and one more LMB. 

Your Meme is bad.
Totally wrong.  Old hog's gun was extremely high damage, but took gettitng used to the two ranges, slowness and reloading.  By no means was he useless after a wasted hook.  Maybe a lot of people never took the time to learn the weapon and how to play the hero optimally?  It seems like many, on both sides of this little argument, never really got it- people seem to think that all he had was the combo.  But if you played him correctly before, you should have been getting lots of kills even without hook.  Not the case now.
Oh, the good times when that combo would wreck tanks too :(
They are fine, but Dr. Riku (I do not know his exact Twitch name) was the highest-rated Roadhog main last season.  He plays him almost every game, whereas I have almost never seen Taimou play him, and MoonMoon and Harbleu do not use him too frequently.  Highly recommended, especially for a (smaller) streamer.  I found out about him after seeing several big Twitch names playing with or against him on the ladder. 
> Some people will make up arbitrary rules like "NEVER HOOK FIRST" -- its bullshit, playstyle is always situational, and for the most part you're going to be reacting to the state of the fight, not following a script.

Well, let me add a little color here because this is not exactly correct. Roadhog main, 68% hook accuracy across all seasons.

Everything is situational and there should not be a script for play style but you could argue that there are right moves in specific situations. An old school example would be 2 hogs 1v1ing (now very rare because hog doesn't get picked often) - in this situation, for similarly skilled players, the player who used hook later would win because of the stun timing. 

So to OP - don't follow a particular playbook, but do read up on what strategies work when. This is valid for any competitive game. And finally: do play hog. He's rewarding and his recent buff makes him a viable aggressive tank again.
this is still true unfortunately.  i've actually had a lot of fun playing against roadhogs as tracer.  I just bait hook and keep some distance and clip blink clip blink until he's dead.  the new take a breather that has damage reduction does mitigate that some.  but if he misses his hook that's 8 seconds of PLAY TIME!
Hell, I'm almost a silver border and I didn't know what that meant until like two months ago lol
I thought it meant like "peeling" away from the main fight. like a banana, just as often to get healed as protecting healers. 
Mastering the hook turn to drag people off the side of cliffs separates the Great Hogs from the Good Hogs
Hog's E change doesn't seem to do anything relevant when I played him.  I'm alive more but don't feel like I'm contributing anything because I'm still not getting kills and still have no way to protect my team.
I still think Hog is a tough pick because he really lacks the damage to really be impactful without a good amount of help, but I think he is 100% playable now. Before the patch he just didn't do anything well enough. He is extremely hard to finish off now if played intelligently, and he has enough damage potential that he can continuously be a moderate threat around the objective. I don't think Hog will become a meta staple, but I'm pretty sure he will go back to seeing a decent winrate and amount of play.
Change is scary and angering to most. It's also the only thing there is...
I've been daydreaming about the team up capabilities.  btw, 100% agree, roadhog is dead to me = roadhog's old play style is dead.  I just think most people haven't figured out how to play with him in his new form. 

There are a handful of things I think about.  

A damage boosting mercy will pretty much resurrect the old roadhog
Imagine a roadhog peeking from an enclosed space.  If there were a junkrat in there with him, he could hook bring the enemy in, shoot, and junkrat can frag and mine maybe even throw a trap.  probably enough to shred a tank.

also, i picture a mccree right behind the roadhog, hook bring in shoot, mccree at the same time fans the hammer.  

or a doomfist right behind the roadhog,  he hooks in, and with good timing, DF rocket fucks enemies right in their faces.  

the biggest underlying theme is to think of roadhog the same exact way that you think of winston.  never go solo.  always communicate around the hook to focus fire enemies.  with proper coordination, use it to initiate.  then let the main tank do their work and step back and watch flanks for your healers.
It's honestly not even that different. You just have a more versatile gun and you have to pick your targets when you hook
No. I don't think so. Hook was a good way to counter a DM to begin with. She'd take damage from the ult, and Hog could do a lot of damage to her on the way out. The thing about hook was that it used to one shot, so why not one shot? People use it on cool down, so it's rarely up to cancel an ult.
In my effort to keep things short, I failed to mention: I am a Roadhog player. I have several hours on him inside and outside competitive. I am not trying to meme. The behavior I'm describing is something I've done myself and have seen Harbleu do with old Hog and the current one. I just wanted to point out why people think he's bad and, if you're a good enough player, you can still make a difference. Lastly, I never had to do anything but hook and left click for insta kill on squishies
That was my problem with it. It was 99% a kill but the dragging was the worst. I don't mind scatter but the "no no no no no" BAM was not fun for me. Now I really like him and I'm learning.
Dude, his shotgun is laughable compared to other FPS shotguns that had both damage and speed. Go play Unreal Tournament and get a Flak Cannon or Borderlands with the Jakobs and Torgue shotguns or Battlefield's USAS or Doom's Super Shotgun, list goes on and on. Considering the tiny hitboxes of DPSs, even if you're at point blank and have spot on accuracy at least half of the pellets will miss which makes a pellet based shotgun in a game completely worthless. I'm sorry, but when I blast you from 5-10 meters away with a shotgun, you shouldn't have taken 50 damage, you should be goddamn horizontal. It's insane that Blizzard designs shotguns like this when anybody but a tank will certainly miss at least half the pellets because of the size. Not to mention that with healing, they can simply reheal any damage you dish out in two seconds no matter how good it is. If they made pellets stun it'd be half decent, "Oh hey Genji. Wanna try to deflect or dash? Fuck you, get stunned and hooked bitch". Goddamnit, now you're making me daydream of RMB being used as a Pharmercy counter.
U sure u have 68% hook accuracy? Seems abnormally high
Yeah and the chances of a true 1v1 in a 6v6 game are almost non existent, so your "old school example" is not at all relevant to the vast majority of real cases.

Giving such general advice does more harm than good imo. If he can't fathom the hook games by himself, he's going to reach his peak pretty soon. Don't rush that peak by training the OP in  habits.
i guarantee roadhog is gonna get reworked. don't bother learning a hero that is going to see significant changes in the future when there are stable, much more valuable(and fun to play) heroes to learn
It didn't come into popular usage in Overwatch until about 2 months ago, so don't worry. You aren't too behind the times. 

Edit: Added a bit of clarification for people who have difficulty with context clues. 
It definitely means peeling enemies off your vulnerable teammates
Yeah that's the sense that I get. I mean look at Lucio, there were people saying he was ruined and stuff but he's more useful than ever, expecially with a coordinated team. I feel like they're really pushing team coordination with these recent changes. They make the characters weak by themselves but very strong with a good team. Which is unfortunately hard to find, especially solo queueing, so that's why I think a lot of people are upset. They're used to the Solo queue, every man for himself kind of thing that happens at lower ranks so they can't utilize the full capabilites of the hero. 
Change isn't scary nor angering unless you think it'll cost you something.
I've been trying to find someone to test the Junkrat + Roadhog combo in a few games where the Junkrat will always focus the hooked targets. 

Also I play a lot of McCree and will always try to help a roadhog get that kill. Even a single body shot as they're being hooked in can secure the kill for the Hog. 

I also play a lot of Mercy and will always damage boost a Hog when he hooks someone if I'm able to, which almost guarantees the kill. 

Hog is great, he just needs the help of his team. Which is completely okay for a tank hero. Every tank hero relies mainly on their team to get the kills, most of the tanks are used as initiators or displacers. Reins charge initiation is useless without a follow up from the team. Same as a Zarya grav, D.va boosting into the enemies or even Orisas Halt! ability. 
Totally agree people just dont see the value in him yet but give it time. Hook by game design is still incredibly valuable - its displacement. Displacement punishes bad position and in OW that can be a team win. 
'Course hook was good against DM.  But now that DM is going to be used less and won't last for the duration of many ults, doesn't this have a side effect of making the hook comparatively stronger for this application?  It seems that only a few other abilities can instantly interrupt death blossoms and such.
Dude I dunno, but doing 2 things to get a frag is not an instagib.

I am just unbelivable tired by all this trashtalk since Hog got nerfed, nothing against you =)
Obviously my comment was limited to playing Roadhog (pre nerf) in Overwatch, where it was very effective at killing opponents with an up close meat shot with LMB or when hitting them with perfect range on a RMB.  Sadly it is no longer very strong, but you can spam shots faster.  I think that others who had many hours on Roadhog willl agree.  Seems like your opinion is that RH's shotty wasn't ever very good- this i can't agree with.  I do appreciate your being quite a vidya shotty aficionado!
No, I'm lying on the internet for no reason. 

Edit for clarity: Yes, I am sure. I don't have an explanation for it either - I just land them. I also realize harbleu sits at the 60% range but he has a bazillion more hours than I do and I am sure that playing against higher skill (I play diamond) players would bring my number down.
> Don't rush that peak by training the OP in habits.

Where did I say OP should fall into any habit?! I actually said you were *correct*, while saying that there is an optimal strategy in specific situations. No idea why you'd downvote based on that, btw, but you do you.

> Yeah and the chances of a true 1v1 in a 6v6 game are almost non existent, so your "old school example" is not at all relevant to the vast majority of real cases.

Removing variables to determine optimal situations is normal. It is normal in games, in mathematics, in life. Obviously you never truly have a 1v1, but (zoning in on overwatch) you constantly hear talk about people going against each other in competitive settings ("who's the better tracer in this envy vs lunatic-hai game?", etc). 


Ahh, that explains a lot. I've been gaming for over a decade and I felt dumb not knowing that term. I couldn't recall ever really hearing it though. 
Lol, it's been in use since forever...
Really? I've been hearing it much earlier than that, but I knew what it was because I played other games with that term.
It's been used for literally decades...
I'm saying that DM being lower is actually a Nerf to hog because DM is something that he could counter, and while it's true that hook can stop ults, it is used so often that it takes a lot of game sense to use it for that, not to mention that it can only stop one ult.

Old DM was so OP in the right hands. I remember a moment where I ate a reaper ult and immediately after that I ate a Pharah ult. It was literally their whole plan. Just throw a bunch of damage and hope that something hits.
Ehh you're really arguing semantics more than anything here. You did have to do a combo, but getting hooked by a competent hog player meant death for any hero except a tank unless somebody intervened. 

Just a thought here; what if, instead of nerfing his damage, they changed his hook so that it didn't stun the target anymore so they can still use abilities/primary and secondary fire. That way he would have to play around everybody's cool downs rather than just hook. He wouldn't be able to tank bust anymore either because all the other tanks would be able to stop his damage (even Winston with a well timed bubble, or at least a bubble to stop the follow up shots to kill him). He would still retain his crazy damage that we all loved but would have to be smart about who to hook and when. Plus he wouldn't be able to duel as well in general because hooking the person you're dueling wouldn't necessarily mean a win when you're both low health. And flank hog would be much less effective because if the teams aren't fighting and have all their cool downs up it would be a lot riskier and he wouldn't be able to combo nearly as many heroes. 
Smh stupid comments
It could just be that I'm used to more retro shooter style shotties or faster firing ones like pump actions, I don't know. Roadhog's shotgun just feels incredibly weak to what I'm used to. 

Like I said, take the Flak Cannon for example. It could easily oneshot a guy at point blank range and yes the LMB is pellet based but even if you miss, the pellets ricochet back so it could very well hit the target or perhaps a separate target. Hell, if your opponent tries to be a coward you can grenade the guy with an RMB, reducing him to gristle in one shot. It fired fast, it had a lot of damage (There's good reason as to why it's one of the higher tier and more desirable weapons in the game) but it was usually hard to get on maps because they'd only have one spawner for it and everybody like me would want it because it's so much fun to use. It's not the best weapon in the game (See: Redeemer) but damn, is it satisfying to use. Once you try out a gun like that, there's no going back to something like Roadhog's shotty. God, I'd kill for that gun to be recreated for Roadie. Short range and long range utility all in one package.
Sure thing man, then youre doing something really wrong atleast
So is "Ptolemy world picture" doesn´t mean it´s a popular Phrase These days.
Yeah, I'm sure that it's been used in other games before, but that's around when it got really popular in Overwatch. I even remember a few of the OW news channels putting out videos explaining it and everything, because up until the dive meta took off, it just wasn't needed. 
K I'll tell Jeff to give Hog some guns from Unreal and maybe a jetpack or something.
I don't follow. Why wrong?
though seriously, peeling is a very common game term. Its used a lot in wow for yeaaars
A jetpack on a guy that big wouldn't make sense, although this game could do with some more counters to Pharah (I heard D.Va is now a counter. Keep in mind I've barely played since Roadhog nerf).
I would imagine your hooks/hour is probably lower than most players, meaning you maybe don't go for those high risk high reward hooks as much as some other players. That's not to say hooks/hour is a stat representative of you well you play that hero, but neither is hook accuracy necessarily.
It is. In other games. And also it explains itself quite well. But the Moderators of tournaments and streamers of OW in speciffic just picked it up recently.
Here are a few posts just from this sub which are way older than 2-3 months:

11 months old:
https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/54rfw1/am_i_considered_good_with_mercy/

11 months old:
https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/559dos/need_advice_about_defensive_positioning/

9 months old:
https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/5bo84h/unsatisfied_with_my_team/

9 months old, a guide **with a whole section just on peeling**, mind you the definition it uses it a bit off:
https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/5d5m5k/rising_above_the_ranks_tips_for_season_3/

It was clearly in use for a long time.

Low skill floor/High skill ceiling heroes to get into?
So with the upcoming DVA and Mercy changes I'm going to playing these two heroes VERY little now. If at all. So two of my three mains have been all but ruined for me, and I want some new ones.

I ask for low skill floor heroes because I have legitimate coordination issues that mean while I can aim, it sort of 'depends'. I also sometimes just have a 'shutdown', especially when playing heroes with complex kits (Sombra, Orisa ect.), and just sort of forget everything I know about the game. I'll freeze up, try to force myself to press this button to do something, stop in battle and die. That's my simplest explanation. It might be my brain, or just that I'm not used to keyboard controls after coming from console. That's my best attempt at explaining what happens. It's why I play heroes that require little aiming (Dva with weapon spread & close range effectiveness and Mercy for the obvious fact you don't aim at all).

I play Tracer at the moment, because she has the similar close range effectiveness, a high ceiling and I hope to completely master playing this hero. I was thinking picking up Pharah, because of the muscle memory I have for flick-shots, from years of TF2. Thanks in advance :DHmm, Winston or Reinhardt are pretty good heroes that require little skill mechanically but can absolutely dominate a game if played well. 

Personally I prefer to play Reinhardt because there is something extremely satisfying about bashing enemies with a hammer. 
winston for sure
Symmetra. Learn the basics an be it's easy climbing
Lucio, even if his skill floor is a little higher than it used to be, you can still be useful quickly while having a looong road to master all of his kit.
Lúcio might be a good pick, as a good lúcio will use all sorts of flashy, hard wallriding tricks to maximise his peeling ability. You also don't have to aim that much, since you can be kinda spammy with his weapon.
Lucio is what you're looking for. He's super easy to get into initially, and you'll more or less naturally learn when to get aggressive with him simply through playing him. Check out Jamie Allegro's wallriding video as a starting point (https://youtu.be/YH0ePK5ia50), and have fun fragging out playing the "healer" =)
Definitely Lucio. You can do a good job and be a help to your team while being safe, and as you get more confident you will find yourself getting better and better. 
Like most people have been saying Lucio. Even if you arent that good with him you are really useful with your auras. As you get better you can master wallriding, when to use your e and which crossfade to use. Knowing when to ult is also very important. All this gives him a high ceiling.
You are asking for a "low skill
requirements, but high reward"-hero. There is no such thing in Overwatch anymore. I guess you could count old DVA and Mercy to that kind of hero, because their kit was very simple to use and you were often required to hold down a button and press another one for mobility once in a while. But thats material for another discussion.

Your Post confuses me a little. You say you can't aim, but you play an aim-dependent hero like Tracer. I think you could be good at those heroes, if you just practice enough. If you like Tracer and track well with her weapon (like shooting constantly at the head/neck of your target) you might as well like Zarya and Sombra. They reward good tracking in a similar way (Zarya is slightly different bc no headshot damage). DVA also rewards good tracking, with the new changes your success with this hero will be bound directly to your mechanical skill with her weapon(s). 

If you only play the "easiest hero in the current meta" I think I have bad news for you. The devs are currently focusing on making the "low risk/high reward" heroes harder to play, so their effectiveness is more difficult to deploy, but more rewarding when executed well. 
Some people here are suggesting Winston but I disagree man.

Yeah sure he's relatively easy to play mechanically, but if you play him poorly you risk being an ult battery for the enemy team.

I think Lucio, Zen and S76 are probably the best options are you can at least get some form of value out of them
Reaper is a not a hard hero mechanically and can dominate lower elo but he requires a lot of practice to master, but definitely consider him especially since he is one of the only dps who can work with any comp and can take out his counters with good positioning (if I had a nickel for every enemy pharah that has told me I was hacking because of my reaper play)
I'd go with Winston, I'm a tank main and find I do the most impactful work with him. But it also depends on your team comp. I also play a lot of Orisa or Dva if we need it. 

With Winston you can easily control high ground and initiate all engagements for your team. The trick is Bubble Dancing (weaving in and out of your deployable shield to negate any incoming damage) and knowing when to disengage from the fight. Your role is to create chaos and scatter the enemy team, hopefully leaving a support or dps at low enough hp so your dps can come in and clean up.

Edit * He requires low mechanical skill as his Tesla Cannon has a cleave effect, leaving you able to focus on strategy, target selection and positioning. 
Despite sounding hypocritical by saying Orisa is a hero I struggle with, I might actually begin playing her more. I've only tried her on the team deathmatches and total mayhem but she's very fun and her kit seems to just 'work' for me personally. I also find it easy to aim with her as she slows down while firing, and bonus her character is super nice. I might try playing her more and see how effective I can get. It doesn't seem like her skill ceiling is too high. 

Zarya is another tank I've been looking at as she only requires two buttons for her abilites, but I really really dislike how much harder it is for me to use her abilities on pc over console. So I'm certainly not against using Rein or Orisa as they're both anchor heroes that are vital.
That's interesting, I prefer Winston because can spam the "oh yea!" voiceline (bound to right click) while zapping people to death.
I second this
no dont, shitty hero tbh. you are better off picking support every time instead of sym.
Wow, three comments all for Lucio. (I guess this answer will apply to too three comments lol) I'm definitely gonna look into playing him. I've thought about Ana and ignoring the rest of her kit until I get the aiming down - it gives me the satisfaction of learning to aim well. 
I'm looking for heroes that arent difficult mechanically or ones that are easy to pick up and be reasonably effective, but there's a leauge between being effective and being good at the hero. (Reinhardt for example.)
I play Tracer because I enjoy the flanker gameplay and I like her character. If I'm good at her or not is a different story.
I'm trying Sombra at the minute and finding it hard with her complex kit but rewarding. Same for Orisa, but I'm finding it much easier to track with her slowed movement while firing. Sombra and Orisa might be the two new mains I pick up (with Ana thrown in) as it's a very long road but gives me the satifaction of learning a hero that's personally difficult for me and learning to aim well.
Zarya is a good choice since you play tracer. You can use your tracking abilities with her. Learn shield timings and not to waste em and you should be good. Remember she is a secondary tank and has trouble solo tanking.
You can change controls to make them hero specific
She's viable even at GM. Really strong in the right hands. Especially strong below masters. 
Ana has forgiving aim all around, especially on teammates. This can be frustrating when trying to sneak a heal between teammates to one further away but it is much more forgiving than say McCree 
Yea... tracking abilites... mine are super bad. I think it's lack of practice and my super high sensitivity. (It's 30, dropped to 25 for Zarya and Tracer.) I turned it up initially because i found I was sometimes having to physically lift my mouse and put it on the other side of my mousepad when I was turning alot, or crane my wrist. I'll adjust it a little and try to stop flicking my wrist suddenly and 'snap' my crosshairs to an enemy instead of tracking.
It's not the controls and the buttons they're mapped to, I think it's just me. One time I was coming out of spawn with Dva, think 'Ok I'll press lshift to boost, then when it's on cool down I can ult on the point.' I press Q. I look at this exploding mech outside spawn and just think 'what the fuck?'
It's difficult to explain these 'shutdowns' I mentioned, but it's not to do with which button does what. If there was some way to have the abilities mapped to a controller but aim with a mouse, I'd take it. I find a controller much easier, besides aiming.
She does seem to have super large hitboxes. I'll play both Lucio and Ana and see who I prefer.
That flick aiming has it's place and is really good on certain heroes. Sounds like you might need a bigger mouse pad. I use a mtg playmat. I'm 800dpi at something like 4.3 in game sense.

You said you want to master traced and tracking aim is a big part of that. You will develop it over time if you practice it. There are plenty of resources to help you learn how to practice properly, it just takes time.
Here's a tip no one talks about- Do not consciously think about the controls. Make it subconscious. That way you will fuck up less and you'll be able to think more about the game. Instead of thinking "Shift-Q" think "boost then ult on point."
Or a smaller keyboard lol, it goes over into the larger 'mouse area' of my mousepad. I'm a very good Tracer on console, and after 60 something hours I've finally started to get down my tracking and aim. I might play Orisa to improve tracking as I find it very easy to track with her. Obviously it will take time on pc and I'm expecting to have to put in just as many hours as on console to get good at Tracer.
The flick aiming is super helpful for Pharah, and most games I have 80% accuracy or more. It might be helpful for Ana too.

Smurf accounts, Ps4, and Account Sharing
First of all I know this no strictly overwatch related. However after going on google and various subreddits, I can't find my specific question asked and I believe I'll have  better reception from OWuniversity. 

 I account share with my roomate on ps4. This works fine, but I'm shooting for diamond this season and I need to make a smurf account so I can play with real life friends and have no fear of de-ranking.

Just a quick rundown on the setup. Roomate has my PSN account Primary activated on his playstation and my playstation has his PSN account Primary activated. We both pay for PSN subscription.  I purchased OW on my account on my playstation so he is getting it for free. This lets us both play online simultaneously. Now the problem I've been having: I don't want to deactivate my account from his since we share many other games.

I've made a PSN-less account on my playstation which I got working through de and re activating accounts (It worked for one night), but it has since stopped working. My proposed solution is to buy OW on my roomate's account. This way both accounts will have the OW license, hopefully making smurf accounts (no psn) work. 

I just wanted to make sure this will work before I pull the trigger and drop 50$.  

Tl:DR : I account share with my room mate I purchased overwatch on my account which lets my room mate play for free.  I can't get a smurf account working without deactivating my account from his playstation. Will buying overwatch on his account make this work?This would work. Your ps4's additional accoublnts have access to all games of the primary activated accounts - your roomates acc. So yeah, if you buy him the van free you can play ow on the smurfs on your ps4
Could anyone ELI5 how to create a smurf acct on ps4. I think I may have done it correctly but I must have have some settings off because I gcouldnt play online on the smurf
ill have to check my settings when I get home but I'm quite sure that's what I did the other day and it asked me to sign into psn.
Yeah, my partner and I used to share one PS4, and we had just one PSN paid account and one copy of Overwatch, but we could both play (under separate PSN names). After we got the second PS4, we had to get another copy so that we could both play simultaneously.

Since we had the two accounts on one PS4 before, I think it should be fine if you get him a copy of the game. 
or save the 50 and put it towards a pc !:D
Just make a new psn account and log in, as long as the account you have plus on is signed in any other accounts can access your library and play online.
Try signing in to PSN from the main menu screen on your smurf, I think they send you an email to verify your email address before you can go online. 
Heh, do skins transfer over?
ill have to check my settings when I get home but I'm quite sure that's what I did the other day and it asked me to sign into psn.
ill have to check my settings when I get home but I'm quite sure that's what I did the other day and it asked me to sign into psn when trying to enter OW main screen.
Thanks, it's also possible that I haven't registered that PS as my primary, recently just swapped drives and don't remember if it transferred over or not but thanks for the input!

A Case for Filling {Inc. Data}
{Long post incoming}

Hi, I'm Torrossaur, an approx. ~high-plat/low-diamond fill/flex player.

I've seen this site repeatedly advise people that want to climb SR to main a DPS and carry their way higher. I think it's this type of advice (along with 66% of the cast being DPS, but that's a different story) that has lead to the proliferation of DPS mains, and the demise of support and tank mains.

I had this attitude at the start of the season as I had reached Diamond the last season mainly playing Soldier. At the start of this season, after placing 2890SR, I assumed I could continue to play DPS back up to diamond. Due to a number of factors including a number of 4-5-6 DPS comps (and some really shit play on my behalf) i fell to mid-gold (2250SR to be specific).

So I changed my attitude. I tried to unselfishly pick what I thought was best for the team (note - what I thought, not what the loudmouth on the mic thought). I got back to platinum very easily (in roughly 20 games) and I was explaining my reasoning to an IRL friend who was 'stuck' in 'elo hell' at around 2100SR. He was of the opinion that because I had reached Diamond last season that my hidden MMR would pull me back to high plat. So I started a fresh account with the objective of placing mid-gold and a policy of only picking last and only playing what the team needed [Solo queue only]. In QP I only did what I thought I needed to to get to gold - note Sym is my most played QP character.

This is the [MasterOverwatch](https://masteroverwatch.com/profile/xbl/global/SaltyTorbMain) of SaltyTorbMain. (I wish I had made this post earlier so you could see the SR progression in the graph). For full disclosure my main Torrossaur is level 487 and I have been a Zarya main since s2, with a brief stint as a Soldier main last season.

I placed 2300SR and climbed to 3025SR in 48 games with a 62.5% win rate. This account was ahead of my main account for the whole season. My playing stats were:

**S5 – 48 games**

Tank – 25 games (52.1% of games) with 64% win rate

Support – 13 games (27.1% of games) with 53.8% win rate

DPS – 9 games (18.8% of games) with 55.65 win rate

Most played: Orisa – 12 games

Best Winrate (10+ games): Orisa 75%

Tanks having my highest win rate was no suprise being a Zarya main, but the tanks I was winning on (Orisa and Winston) were foreign to my off-tank history (Zarya, Road, DVA) but filling what the team needed effectively gave the team the boost they needed. Soon I was being accused of being a smurf, even though this account was higher than my main account.

I took the lessons back to my main account. I played whatever was needed (ex Mercy - I'm horrible at her, like Bronze Mercy level play). As you can see from the [MasterOverwatch](https://masteroverwatch.com/profile/xbl/global/Torrossaur) my SR just kept going up. Whereas previously I had stuck to my off-tank/DPS/Zen, filling for the team allowed them to be more effective. Previous SR bands of problem, namely 2800-3000SR, went easily, going 15W-2L through this on the last night of the season to finish at 3029.

I can't remove the games I insta-locked Soldier at the start of the season, but my stats ended up looking like 

**S5 – 443 games** (high diamond, finished diamond)

Tank – 219 games (49.6% of games) with 57.3% win rate

DPS – 138 games (31.5% of games) with 41.3% win rate

Support – 83 games (18.9% of games) with 56.8% win rate

Most played: Winston – 119 games

Best Winrate (10+ games): Torbjorn 75%

I played a lot less DPS, which was annoying sometimes but I enjoy winning and ranking up more than playing DPS. From my stats of previous seasons I played 50% more games as tank (and having been a Zarya main with 700+ games of Zarya, I already played a lot of tank) but surprisingly didn't have to play that much more support (-10% on my account average).

Mentioning this to my friends, a few tried it. One reached Diamond on two accounts (team and solo queue), while the other fell just short. They had both reached Diamond in previous seasons but had found Season 5 particularly hard.

I guess the point of this post is to present some evidence that you don't need to DPS hard carry to a higher SR. The evidence may be anecdotal but we were able to reproduce it over 4 (nearly 5 accounts). So if you're stuck in your own personal 'elo hell', try filling if DPS hard carrying isn't working for you. Your team mates are at a similar SR to you for a reason, try enabling them to do their jobs.

I'm aware 4-5 accounts is a horrible sample size but it's the best we could do.

The other thing I did was get VOD reviews by people on this site. Learning Winston at 2500SR wasn't particularly easy but getting pointers accelerates the learning curve exponentially when picking up a new character.

I've collected my friends data on what they played this season vs previous (as well as my own), which I'll include in a comment and I'll downvote it so it sits at the bottom for anyone that is interested. I was going to put it in a google doc but my account has my full name in it, which I'd rather not have on reddit. I've also removed account names that aren't mine from the data.

{TL:DR} Hard carrying DPS isn't the only way to rank up. Try filling *if you can play the character effectively*.

{edit} - spacing & formatting.One thing I think stops people from ranking up via DPS carry is that it *actually requires them to be good at it*. The skill floor for DPS carrying is much higher than what many who try it think it is. The skill floor for playing tank/heals sufficiently is much lower than DPS skill floor is. It requires less mechanical skill, less 1vX against the enemy, and less out-playing other players in general. That is not to say that it's a skill-less job, nor that people cannot become genuinely amazing in these roles, just that if you're going to pick up a character and carry your team, it's much easier to do that as, say, Reinhardt, than it is as Soldier, unless your mechanical skill is truly on-point.

Seemingly in support of this theory, I tend to be one to fill roles as needed, and as a result tend to be a tank. DPS is locked fast, and a friend of mine plays Zen so we always have at least one healer. However, I practice mechanical skill regularly, and am not by any means a poor DPS. If a game is going badly, I have had extraordinary luck when I can ask one of our under-performing DPS to switch to Rein and just defend the party, while I grab Reaper or Pharah and lay waste to the enemy. More often than not, it completely turns games around. I believe the reason is, even though the players I'm swapping with are often newer, lack map sense, battle awareness, and mechanical skill, it's easy to play someone like Rein and still do good enough to cover your role, provided your team's DPS is solid.

All that's just to say, I think many who lock DPS and expect to climb the ranks just aren't skilled enough to do it. A good DPS can define the game in lower ranks, this much is true, but people tend to misattribute the reason for their losses as being due to their team, instead of themselves. They believe they're doing everything possible to win, their teammates are dolts, and thus the only way to progress is to rely on themselves. But, since they're not nearly as good as they imagine they are, they won't be carrying their team anywhere, and would be better suited to a safer role until they can learn the game more.

This is how I see it anyways, as someone who flexes and usually ends up playing tank, despite being able to wipe the field as a DPS.
The problem I have is deciding if I want to play who I want to improve with, or who I'm best with. Like you I don't play mercy, I'm god aweful and die with Rez every time. I mainly play genji because he's my favorite and I have the most time with, but probably my 3rd best character, my best being pharah and second being winston. I envision myself as being a Genji main later, but the problem is that I'm better with other stuff. I determined I'd rather be a platinum genji then a diamond winston, I'll become a diamond genji when improve later. 
> I guess the point of this post is to present some evidence that you don't need to DPS hard carry to a higher SR.

I would argue that because of the whole "carry yourself with DPS out of hell" meta (we can assume this is the general meta of the majority of competitive playerbase) by filling in the team composition you are using the meta to your advantage, so you are enhancing the efforts of the DPS instalockers by providing either tanking or supporting role, balancing the team out and making the whole team's job easier if you play your role correctly.
We are currently experiencing the exodus of the tank players. I think the reason why most players stopped playing Tank is rank obsession, which results in picking more "impactful" heroes. As a tank, it's hard to tell how much impact you have on the game, because it is impossible to tell "how much space you created" and how much "dps plays you enabled". I think that's also the reason, why they are reworking DVa and buffing Zarya and Roadhog, so they feel more impactful to play (with Zarya having the highest team-kill potential and DVA now having a burst-damage-combo). 
I've found that playing Mercy rather than a 6th DPS will help more no matter how good you are at that 6th DPS character.  She's a power amplifier and if you're going to have 5 DPS on your team her own ability to juice the team is amplified.

Same generally applies for any character.  I'll often just play whatever character I want to play but if I'm really trying to get that W I've started to look at the relative team comp as well, down to the specific characters my team's selected.  If we're stacked with characters like Reaper, Roadhog, Mei, McCree, Symmetra, or Doomfist -- I might go Lucio because these characters benefit more from Lucio's speedboost than do Pharah, Hanzo, Widow, Genji, Tracer, Soldier, Bastion, etc.  Fortunately the characters that benefit least from speedboost tend to benefit more from Mercy's damage boost but with plenty of overlap (e.g. Reaper benefits from both speed and damage boost).

But even then you don't have to just focus on support/tanks.  If your team is lacking area denial then by all means grab Junkrat or Pharah because varying up the types of attacks that come at your enemies will improve your chances to get the W.
Offtopic - But how come you are a Torrossaur, as they went extinct millions of years ago?
Regarding telling people they have to play DPS to rank up even if they aren't very good at dps:

I like playing tank. I frequently play tank. I mostly play tank.

I'm very happy to shield/bubble/matrix/etc. 

 I also like to heal and will happily flex when we have 4 dps and one tank already.

For some reason I constantly getting matched with shit dps. Like 2 kill gold dps. Or dps where myself or another healer/tank have gold damage because they are that bad.

So I fall and I fall and I fall. And I honestly don't want to play tank or the game any more. All because people feel like they must do something they aren't particularly good at...in a team game with multiple contributing roles.

Anyway, just thought I'd share another perspective/consequence of the "must play DPS to rank up" trope.

Tldr: the "play DPS to rank up " meme ruins the game for everyone.
Torrossaur

S2 –  397 games (high plat, finished silver)
Tank – 285 games (71.8% of games) with 53.3% win rate
Support – 102 games (25.7% of games) with 45.5% win rate
DPS – 10 games  (2.5% of games) with 45% win rate
Most played: Zarya – 229 games
Best Winrate (10+ games): Zarya 54.1%
S3 – 620 games (high plat, finished plat)
Tank – 274 games (44.2% of games) with 54% win rate
Support – 188 games (30.3% of games) with 55.4% win rate
DPS – 159 games (25.6% of games) with 42.8% win rate
Most played: Zarya – 232 games
Best Winrate (10+ games): Zenyatta 59%
S4 – 482 games (high diamond, finished plat)
Tank – 164 games (34.1% of games) with 49% win rate
DPS – 178 games (37% of games) with 48.3% win rate
Support – 139 games (28.9% of games) with 55.2% win rate
Most played: Soldier – 142 games
Best Winrate (10+ games): Symmetra 68%
S5 – 443 games (high diamond, finished diamond)
Tank – 219 games (49.6% of games) with 57.3% win rate
DPS – 138 games (31.5% of games) with 41.3% win rate
Support – 83 games (18.9% of games) with 56.8% win rate
Most played: Winston – 119 games
Best Winrate (10+ games): Torbjorn 75%

SaltyTorbMain
S5 – 48 games (high diamond, finished diamond)
Tank – 25 games (52.1% of games) with 64% win rate
Support – 13 games (27.1% of games) with 53.8% win rate
DPS – 9 games (18.8% of games) with 55.65 win rate
Most played: Orisa – 12 games
Best Winrate (10+ games): Orisa 75%



C*f *B*s
S3 – 107 games (high plat, finished plat)
Tank – 44 games (41.1% of games) with 63.4% win rate
DPS – 38 games (35.5% of games) with 55.6% win rate
Support – 25 games (23.4% of games) with 45.5% win rate
Most played: Zarya – 38 games
Best Winrate (10+ games): Zarya 61.1%
S4 – 482 games (high diamond, finished diamond) 
Tank – 161 games (33.4% of games) with 53.2% win rate
DPS – 188 games (39% of games) with 50% win rate
Support – 133 games (27.6% of games) with 54.4% win rate
Most played: Soldier – 138 games
Best Winrate (10+ games): Symmetra 66.7%
S5 – 111 games (high plat, finished plat)
Tank – 58 games (52.3% of games) with 45.1% win rate
Support – 35 games (31.5% of games) with 60.6% win rate
DPS – 25 games (22.5%) with 24% win rate
Most played: Winston – 34 games
Best Winrate (10+ games): Symmetra 70%
Overall
Season 2 – 397 games
Tank – 285 games (71.8% of games) with 53.3% win rate
Support – 102 games (25.7% of games) with 45.5% win rate
DPS – 10 games (2.5% of games) with 45% win rate
Most played: Zarya – 229 games
Best Winrate (10+ games): Zarya 54.1%
Season 3 – 727 games
Tank – 318 games (43.7% of games) with 55% win rate
Support – 213 games (29.3% of games) with 55.4% win rate
DPS – 197 games (27% of games) with 43.2% win rate
Most played: Zarya – 270 games
Best Winrate (10+ games): Zenyatta 58.9%
Season 4 – 964 games
Tank – 325 games (33.7% of games) with 51.4% win rate
DPS – 366 games (38% of games) with 48.9% win rate
Support – 272 games (28.3% of games) with 54.8% win rate
Most played: Soldier – 280 games
Best Winrate (10+ games): Symmetra 67%
Season 5 – 602 games
Tank – 302 games (50.1% of games) with 55.3% win rate
Support – 131 games (21.6% of games) with 57.3% win rate
DPS – 172 games (28.3%) with 39.5% win rate
Most played: Winston – 160 games
Best Winrate (10+ games): Torbjorn 70%

S*z
S3 – 556 games (high plat, finished plat)
Tank – 295 games (53% of games) with 51.1% win rate
Support – 203 games (36.4% of games) with 58.4% win rate
DPS – 60 games (10.6%) with 50% win rate 
Most played: Reinhardt – 160 games
Best Winrate (10+ games): Symmetra 62.5% (10/16)
S4 – 236 games (high diamond, finished diamond)
Tank – 84 games (35.8% of games) with 46.3% win rate
Support – 103 games (43.7% of games) with 58.6% win rate
DPS – 48 games (20.5%) with 52.1% win rate 
Most played: Reinhardt – 73 games
Best Winrate (10+ games): Symmetra 73.3% (11/15)
S5 – 316 games (high diamond, finished diamond) 
Tank – 175 games (55.3% of games) with 55.2% win rate
Support – 93 games (29.3% of games ) with 54% win rate
DPS – 49 games (15.4% of games ) with 49% win rate
Most played: Winston – 111 games
Best Winrate (10+ games): Symmetra 69.7% (23/33)
F*l
S4 – 383 games (high plat, finished plat)
Tank – 143 games (37.6% of games) with 50.7% win rate
Support – 127 games (33.4% of games) with 58.4% win rate
DPS – 109 games (29%) with 54.1% win rate
Most played: Reinhardt – 88 games
Best Winrate (10+ games): Torbjorn 62.5% (15/24)
S5 – 198 games (high diamond, finished diamond)
Tank – 50 games (25.3% of games) 49% win rate
Support – 59 games (29.8% of games ) 58.9% win rate
DPS - 87 games (43.9% of games) 54% win rate
Most played: Pharah – 38 games
Best Winrate (10+ games): Symmetra 76.2% (16/21)
S*t
S5 – 213 games (high plat, finished plat)
Tank – 49 games (22.8% of games) 56.5% win rate
Support – 76 games (35.5% of games) 52.7% win rate
DPS - 91 games (41.7% of games) 52.7% win rate
Most played: Winston – 33 games
Best Winrate (10+ games): Torbjorn 69.2% (9/13)
Overall 
S3 – 556 games 
Tank – 295 games (53.1% of games) with 51.1% win rate
Support – 203 games (36.4% of games) with 58.4% win rate
DPS – 60 games (10.5% of games) with 50% win rate 
Most played: Reinhardt – 160 games
Best Winrate (10+ games): Symmetra 62.5% (10/16)
S4 – 619 games 
Tank – 227 games (36.67% of games) with 48.9% win rate
Support – 230 games (37.2% of games) with 58.3% win rate
DPS – 157 games (25.4% of games) with 53.5% win rate
Most played: Reinhardt – 161 games
Best Winrate (10+ games): Torbjorn 64.3% (18/28) 

S5 – 727 games 
Tank – 274 games (37.6% of games) with 54.6% win rate
Support – 228 games (31.3% of games ) with 54.8% win rate
DPS – 227 games (31.1% of games ) with 48.5% win rate
Most played: Winston – 144 games
Best Winrate (10+ games): Symmetra 69.7% (53/76)
U*1 & Md
S2 – 136 games (high gold, finished gold)
Tank – 65 games (47.8% of games) with 54.1% win rate
Support – 4 games (2.9% of games) with 50% win rate
DPS – 68 games (50% of games) with 48.5% win rate 
Most played: DVA – 64 games
Best Winrate (10+ games): Soldier 52.5% (32/59)
S3 – 259 games (high plat, finished plat)
Tank – 175 games (67.6% of games) with 58.4% win rate
Support – 20 games (7.7% of games) with 50% win rate
DPS – 63 games (24.3% of games) with 46.8% win rate 
Most played: DVA – 162 games
Best Winrate (10+ games): DVA 60.1% (89/148)
S4 – 427 games (high diamond, finished plat)
Tank – 90 games (21.2% of games) with 52.8% win rate
Support – 164 games (38.4% of games) with 57.9% win rate
DPS – 172 games (40.4% of games) with 44.8% win rate
Most played: Pharah – 99 games
Best Winrate (10+ games): Lucio 63.2% (24/38) 
S5 – 274 games 
Tank – 125 games (45.5% of games) with 53.6% win rate
Support – 108 games (39.3% of games) with 50.5% win rate
DPS – 42 games (15.2% of games ) with 31% win rate
Most played: DVA – 106 games
Best Winrate (10+ games): Orisa 68.4% (13/19)

I feel if you are capable of killing or harassing the enemy to help your own team kill stuff better, DPS/Off-tanks are the types to pick. Winston/Zarya/Dva are more than capable of killing/disrupting the enemy. I find as support - it's harder to impact the game, unless you are healing a strong dps/tank that can help kill stuff, so you are reliant on them killing. 

Flexing helps, but only if you can play those other roles reasonably well. 
The 'carry' advice that I've seen here is often directed at the lowest ranks, where coordination, aim and target priority can be hit or miss. So just being able to secure kills makes a difference. Presumably as you rank up more and more players are reasonably competent at DPS and at the game in general so this becomes a less useful strategy. 

Why is there this assumption that most DPS players are trying to carry? I think the simpler answer is that pew pew is relatively straightforward and immediately rewarding so most people want to do it. Support and tanking just aren't as glamorous. The game itself feeds this - play of the game/match is usually a DPS. After some experience it's obvious that you can get POTG undeservedly but nonetheless the positive feedback loop is there. 
In the end, you have to play for your team. No one else is going to help them, and you can't expect them to help you
Some people fill better than others. I would personally slit my wrists if I had to play support in gold, being at about the same rank as you. But when I fill at my level the games are at least less stressful, if not more often won than when I instapick. It's frequently said that you can carry games about 500 sr below your actual rating, and carrying tends to work better if you're the one doing damage. There's also the fact that success in low elo is objectively more about aim than anything else.

In that sense the play DPS advice isn't bad, it's only bad if you don't know your limits and you are trying to carry games of your own level. I appreciate zenyatta more and more for "carrying" because of how well-rounded he is. I sometimes get all five gold medals, which kind of tells a story about the team... 
This is somewhat off topic, but I think everyone should fill as much as possible because this is the best way to improve the competitive experience for the entire community (bad comps are the biggest contributor to bad games).

On a related note, I don't understand the obsession with maximizing SR. I get wanting to improve and am motivated by this as well, but SR is just a mechanism for matching you up with equally skilled opponents. It's silly to use a gimmicky strategy like only playing DPS or only playing your best hero just so that you can boost SR.
I need to find these people. I suggest a switch with an under-performing DPS and I get told to go fuck myself, and that person switches to Torb and hammers his turret in spawn (Not even joking, happened on Sunday).

The way I've tried to approach it this season is if the DPS aren't killing, and I can see from their profile that they are decent, it's probably a problem that myself as a tank can fix. I played a match recently and our mccree (who i could see had a 55% win rate) was doing nothing. I stopped diving as Winston and babysat him for a bit, and sure enough there was a Genji all over him. So from then on I'd leap back to our McCree, chase that pest off him, then dive back into the fight. McCree became an absolute rig and won us the game. In previous seasons I probably would've suggested we switch, and the Genji probably would've stomped me on Soldier.

But completely agree, I think the advice to DPS carry has been spread so far, that people who aren't suited to the role are taking that on board and everyone is suffering for it. I remember back in Season 2-3 there were tank and support mains everywhere. Now I'd say I'm solo support/tank in most games with 4 DPS. That or the old tank/support mains have got sick of tanking and supporting and have just decided to insta-lock DPS and hope someone else does the tanking/supporting.
I play on a laptop that's got some junk in the trunk but overheats if I push fps too much and I don't have a monitor anyways. I play a mean tracer on console and thought the switch to pc would make me even better. But my limited time to play, lack of experience on m&kb, and average equipment slung me into low gold.

Stepped back and picked up Winston who I'd loved since beta. 1000 sr later I hit diamond with a 68% win rate. I'll never be a GM dps main, just don't have the time to practice aiming. But maining Winston while occasionally flexing has gotten me much farther than trying to force tracer play
And that's absolutely fair enough. I had a lot of Halo experience and when I bought this game in Season 2, my friends just assumed I'd be our Soldier 76. But I'd had enough of MasterChief and was attracted to Zarya's style of game play.

I was happy to be a gold/low-plat Zarya than a good mid/high-plat Soldier because I was over that type of game play. As long as you're happy with where you're at. It's these people that have the mentality of 'I have to play DPS to climb, because that's where I deserve to be' that i was aiming this at.

RE Mercy, I dunno how people do it. I die with rez and just am just generally hunted down constantly. It's a skill in it's own right. 
More so if the enemy gets a budget tank and healer. Your tank or healer not being budget makes a world of difference.

And yes the competition is fiercer for DPS, there are probably 4 DPS players for 1 healer/tank, if that.
Yeah 100% and thats what i was getting at when i said i played what i thought we needed. The amount of times you get a loud mouth on the mic demanding a second tank but i thought we could do with a symmetra/torbjorn/pharah, and we've won is beyond counting. 
When i lived in a uni sharehouse back in 2006 we combined our first names when we made a shared xbox account back when we used to do the 4 split screen on Halo CE. Technically itd be Torrossor but Torrossaur had a better ring.

Ive just kept the name since as its pretty different and im still mates with those guys so its a laugh when Torrossaur pops up.
It's frustrating. I had a game the other day where I had gold elims and gold damage as Zenyatta, and we had three DPS on the team. Plus my assists, I would've been pushing >70% kill participation. Luckily we still won, but still, they were pretty useless.

The attitude I've tried to take this season is unless the other team absolutely rolfstomps you and you never get into the game, there is always something you could do better. Try taking a VOD of your tank/support play and throw it up on Overwatch Uni for some feedback. I thought my Winston play was pretty good (I was running 55% win rate), and I put a VOD up here and got some feed back from high Diamond + Winstons. My gameplay was so much better, I ended up with an almost 60% win rate and it got to the point where I could almost (almost) carry with Winston. There's always something you could be doing better.
Tbh, looking at these numbers the conclusion I come to is that ppl just need to be more honest with themselves if they are going to play dps and still care about rank. Looking at winrates I think the data says that maybe you guys should have been playing tank and healers all along rather than trying to dps if you cared about ranking up. I'm not trying to offend, and I have no problem with ppl playing what they want, but I think the community needs to start thinking about what they care more about, their sr or playing what they want. I see lots of posts about Elo hell and their rank not being where it should, and then I also see lots of posts about stupid dps meta. It's related. If you don't have a 50 percent winrate at the LEAST overall with dps and are 'stuck' in Elo hell, do what this post says and fill what the team needs. You may not be the worst dps and are competent and etc., but the fact remains that you are most likely not the best man for the job the majority of your games. For ppl who care about rank, just be honest and as objective as you can be with your skills, that is the true way to climb.
I think the issue is that it has permeated into the middle ranks too. Whereas the advice may have been aimed at <silver, from talking to people I get the impression they think they are going to carry on McCree at 2500SR just because they did it at 2100SR.

I'm an old Zarya main so I've never got the 'glamorous' aspect of DPS. I had the majority of my games in S4 on Soldier just to break it up from Zarya but I never got the same joy out of a Tac Visor as I did from a perfect Graviton. 

But you're right about the game being aimed towards DPS. As I said in my post 66% of the characters are DPS. We need a new healer (or a few new healers) and some different types of tanks. Something to get the DPS fan boys onto tanking/supporting. I'm a big fan of Orisa but the community reaction towards here has been lacklustre. 
I never had to fill 'main' support like Mercy or Ana at gold but I filled as Zenny. Was a blast, I absolute fragged the fuck out. So many dumb tracers would follow me around a corner and cop a charged volley to the face.

Re carrying at 500SR, tbh my 'proper' SR bracket is probably 2900-3050SR. I found I could carry with Winston until at least ~2700SR, would be taking out at least one healer, usually both, and a DPS per teamfight. It got harder after that.

It's definitely possible beyond that. I played on my friend's girlfriend's account while he was getting ready and the game was at high silver. I was mucking around until I started getting teabagged so went Winston and tore that fucking team apart. Went like 75-2 or something from memory. Wasn't very fair in retrospect but this is why you don't teabag.
Best comment here.

Overwatch is a team game, and that means more than "six people trying to capture an objective."

A Tank's job is to make space for DPS to do work, and for Healers to heal. People like to blame DPS as a kneejerk reaction when nothing is dying on the enemy team. While the problem still *could* be that the DPS are underperforming, it could also be that your Healers are out of position and healing poorly, or the Tanks aren't creating space.

I honestly think people are far too focused on hero selection and who is playing what - the meta of the match. Before asking someone to switch always ask yourself "what can I do right now to turn this around?". 
> I stopped diving as Winston and babysat him for a bit, and sure enough there was a Genji all over him. So from then on I'd leap back to our McCree, chase that pest off him, then dive back into the fight. McCree became an absolute rig and won us the game.

You make a good point here. I should look out for this more often; ways to set up under-performing DPS heroes for better kills. Usually I play Orisa so I'm not as mobile, but there are other ways to pull it off. I like peeling with Halt, it's a fun way to save someone.
When you play a lot of tank you can definitely see a 'budget' or 'fill' tank. My good IRL friend is a wicked Rein (300+ games) and he eats fill Reins alive. You almost feel bad for them by earthshatter #6
Yeah, I am a support player most of the time, and I have never felt like I have to fight for a support slot. Recent huge number of Mercy players though slot me out of playing Ana (because I don't wanna put my team in a position where we don't have sound barrier or transcendence).
Agree with this. I prefer playing tracer and phara, but my winrate with Lucio is often over 60% (or higher on a good day) , and is usually over 50% with DVa - so unless others instalock healers+tanks - I'll take Lucio (Or DVa) for a majority of my comp games - if I want ot get a good run of wins that evening.

everyone is delusional thinking that they are the best at dps :p but you are right, people need to recognize, okay, so dps isnt working for me even tho I read dps carry is the best way to get out of elo hell. time to try some other roles or at least admit that maybe the current rank is where your skill lies
I love this advice, but I also want to stress that you have to be honest with yourself on tank and support as well. I see too many support mains at any rank that just expect a team to carry them because they picked a healer instead of trying to maximize their impact in a game. 
I thought the same thing but talking to my friends they spoke about the amount of times they had to play dps in a 4-5 dps comp if they wanted to dps, but they'd fill for others. Shit comp, higher likelihood of losing.

It makes sense, and as you can see from my stats on saltytorbmain, im no slouch on dps when the comp works. One of my friends in particular is a very good pharah but he never seems to get the team comp to enable him
Absolutely, if you want to gain sr then you must be willing to look at how you can maximize your chance to win with the cards dealt to you. If that means going rein when you have two heals already even though you are a healer main than so be it. I will say though that for healer and tank, communicating with your teammates and letting them know what you do best will usually allow for you to play what you're best at. I feel where you're coming from though because I literally just played a game with triple healer, lol.
Although the part about claiming to be no slouch is subjective and is part of the problem, I can see that shit comps lead to higher likelihood of losing if you are choosing to be dps as well. However, I stand by the fact that if you don't have over 50 percent win rate, really should be like 54 or 55 and higher on dps, you should just fill what the team needs. Like I said, it doesn't mean you're a slouch. What it means is that you are not good enough to justify playing dps EVERY single game regardless of team comp. a lot of ppl can play dps passably with a good comp, heck a majority of ppl can. But to justify playing only dps you gotta have at the very least 50 percent win rate man. It's objective. I give you a dose of what subjective is. You think your friend is a good pharah when the team enables him. I play pharah and it doesn't matter what the other team goes or my team goes, I will perform well. 64 percent win rate this past season. Didn't matter if they went zen, mccree and soldier. This is high plat, low diamond sr btw, so meh, but regardless, a good pharah is pretty damn unstoppable regardless of team comp. your friend isn't as good as you guys think.
If you are good enough to get a 55%+ win rate regardless of comp you wont be in that elo for long. Thats the definition of carry. Which is the exact opposite of my post.

But please, friend, give me a dose of subjective. If you're such a pharah god, why are you still plat/diamond? If you could insta-lock pharah with 64% win rate than do it. Im sure ill see you in the top 500 soon if what you say is true
Because I flexed for my team until the end of the season and then rocketed up in sr once I went pharah. I don't think  im a god, just an above average pharah, further highlighting that she is a pretty solid character in all situations. I wasn't trying to say look at me im so good, I was trying to point out that good is subjective and sometimes wrong by pointing out that if an only above average pharah can do good in all situations than maybe one that can only excel in ideal conditions may actually not be good. This is the problem I've been trying to highlight, one of subjectivity. If I knew of another example I would've used that, sorry for using myself. 

My point agrees with your point. I'm just taking a different angle on what is important to do if you want to climb. My point is be honest with yourself and your skill level. Be objective and take a look at what works as far as winning games. If players are honest with themselves then this will lead a majority of players to flex more as you suggest. I use at least 50 percent (maybe 48 due to the bad comps) to justify playing a dps at all due to the large number of dps mains out there, and 55 percent to justify always playing dps regardless of what your team goes. I use the numbers just to highlight that people need to objectively look at things and then be honest with themselves. That's what I think needs to preached more to the player base rather than these fix all remedies of you got to carry dps or only flex. Either can work, you just have to be objective with yourself and look at what is most effective for winning for you, and the only objective way is by number analysis. Like I said, the majority of ppl would come to the conclusion of flexing which is in accordance with your advice and I agree with, but being objective and honest with yourself is the real advice imo.
> If you are good enough to get a 55%+ win rate regardless of comp you wont be in that elo for long. 

Honestly I'm not super sure of this anymore. Season 5 was my first full season on PC. I main Rein/Winston and had a 56%/60% winrate on them respectively. I also played  around 75/40 hours on each and I finished the season at high 2800. 
You're throwing these numbers around. Last season I had 54% win rate on Soldier, on SaltyTorbMain I had a 63% win rate on Soldier this season, albeit over a limited sample of games. By your logic, I should've been insta-locking Soldier, which is what I did at the start of the season and what began my fall from high plat.

My friend [Chief de Beers](https://masteroverwatch.com/profile/xbl/global/Chief%20de%20Beers/season/4) who is CfBs in the data had a 59.3% win rate last season over 138 games on soldier. What I'm saying is that these guys are capable DPS, it just didn't work this season for some reason. He didn't win a single soldier game this season. He's still the same player he was two months ago and just as capable on DPS.

One of the issues with my data is that i didn't separate offence out from defence. Everyone's defence win rate is dragging down their DPS win rate.
Did you play them enough? I had a ~60% win rate on Winston and ~58% on Zen with 160/443 games just on those two. Definitely how I got back to Diamond.
You're right, my numbers are arbitrary, but they should be used as general guidelines for introspection. Especially with the current way the competitive community is in picking dps heavy comps. If you aren't over 50 percent filling is what you should do, this doesn't mean you're bad dps, it just means you don't justify going dps in a dps heavy comp. no offense, I don't know what the meta was in s4 or if he only played soldier when it was ideal, but season to season you should reassess because characters change, metas change, players get better as other don't, there are so many factors. Someone has to win these games and winning percentages in the 30's and 20's is bad regardless of a heavy dps comp. maybe in his case he has a better win percentage on soldier but really sucks as a dps on other characters. His introspection should lead him to say, maybe if I go to dps I should only touch soldier, do you get what I'm saying? I'll use an example of myself again. I climbed to mid diamond only playing mccree in s2. 55+ win rate on him. This season I have a 38 win rate on him, so guess what, I don't play him. Do you get what I'm saying now? I'm not trying to bash you and you are getting super saltytorbmain defensive. I'm pointing out you need to assess yourself, not just once, or rest on past success, you got to do it constantly. Also, tbh, you alt account is too small a sample size and comes from games that you are picking dps in ideal comps right? Like I said it doesn't mean you're bad, it shows that your flex, fill guide for you works. Your other account shows that you should flex.
https://www.overbuff.com/players/pc/Styro-11235?mode=competitive

Not quite a 52% WR overall, but yeah my winrates on my mains were pretty good. And I definitely played them enough. 
Yeah that's pretty whack. What was your SR like in previous seasons? Could be your hidden MMR pulling you down. Your Ana win rate wouldn't have helped but I would've thought your Rein and Winston win rates would've pulled you up.
There's actually a kind of interesting answer to that...

This was my first full competitive season on PC, I played my placements at the end of season 4, and then I was in the 2300-2400 range. At the beginning of the season I just mainly wanted to improve my mechanical skill, which is why you see my abysmal Ana winrate on that page. 

However, on Xbox I was mid diamond with a winrate between 55-60% overall on only Reinhardt and Winston. I eventually streaked from there to hit Masters and low GM for the first time in the same day. Then since I streaked, I started losing a bunch because I was in too high of a rank too suddenly. I lost a lot of confidence and was in very high plat when I switched over. 

So tbh, I wish I could have hit diamond last season, and I'm a bit disappointed that it took so long to climb once I started getting my mechanics down. I've played nearly 200 levels worth of playtime and I'm still not back where I was on console yet, but hopefully that changes this season. 

How the game determines highlights
For the past days of playing FFA and practing in quickplay. I tend to notice something about my highlights. For example, highlights soemtimes prefers to show a part of the game where I got 3 kills vs my triple death blossom kill.

Has highlights always been this way? Or is it a bug? I'm aware that highlights mostly choose the most productive person(That would explain why many choose  to put a spray after they are done ulting)

But it could just be my experience. Another kind of highlight I rarely see is showing a player attacking the enemy team but didn't get the kills/final blows, rather itshows the player attacking while the other teammate gets the kill(for example. the enemy team is stuck in a graviton surge. Our Genji ults but our 76 got the kills but highlights think Genji deserved the camera)I think it's handled via the fire score isn't it? Which itself is calculated by how much damage/impact you have in a short period of time

So, those three kills may have been against fully-healthed people while the Death-Blossom finished off a bunch of guys at low health. In this situation, it would presumably favour the former
To my knowledge Blizzard hasn't stated how highlights are determined.

By my observations, in qp and comp, they seem to be effected by what the system calculates as a key moment in the game. So, for instance, a triple (regular) kill only a few seconds before capping or reaching the objective might outweigh a quad (ult) kill mid match that didn't result in any objective gain. Technically, the quad kill is more dead enemies making it easier for that team to progress but, in this instance, the triple kill was essential to capturing the objective.

I think this is also why a 2-3 person Mercy res sometimes outweighs other, seemingly, really big plays like a 5 kill Death Blossom. The system may determine that one play was more critical to winning the match or securing a defensive position on the objective.

Of course this is just my speculation. I don't think anyone really knows for sure except the dev team.
idk, they're pretty RNG if you ask me. There are times where i have amazing plays and the POTG will be something completely autopilot and not really worthwhile. random headshot arrow, boring double kill, unexciting tempo rez, etc over a 4 man grav, triple pulse bomb, or 4k with mccree. Plays are just retarded sometimes, and i wish i remembered to record more often 
The system also seems to value normal kills higher that ult kills.
[deleted]
couldnt care less, also you can save them yourself with f9
Once in comp Ana threw nade on Grav and killed like 3-4 people and we all thought she's gonna get potg for sure. She didn't but it makes sense as she only finished all the low health targets.
Well my Kings Row match. Looking back, I've did understand why my non ult highlight got it because I finished off enemies by shooting them in the head vs my ult that took time.

Should I do placements solo or with a group?
I feel like a six stack would be much more difficult as it usually is anyways but you get more coordination.

Solo is just a hot or miss shit show but you can do well if a few are willing to coordinate.

Which is he best one ?? Depends on how often you play with your friends, how good your synergy is, and if they're on the same skill level. For example, I have friends where I don't mind playing with them, but I wouldn't play competitive with them just because their skill level isn't up to par, they have a toxic/troll-y personality, or if we have too many players that mains a single role. (too many supports in my case...)

Having synergy with a group is super important as well because if you guys are not great at communicating, have a game plan, or even a positive environment, then I would not recommend queuing in a group because there's a chance that you might end up facing a 6 stack that is much more skilled or much more in sync with each other. For example, if you play with 5 friends, but no one is communicating, you might be better off soloing with 5 randoms that are your skill level.
I think everyone has a different preference here and everyone's experience is a bit different. Some people swear by duo only for best results. Others swear by 3 or 4. Some people say 5 is good too or 6 is the best. Some people think anything other than 5-6 is best. It's all hard to say, really.

It's true that in a 6 stack, unless you've been playing together a while and have good synergy, that you're likely to get paired against other 6 stacks that are better coordinated. Similarly with 5 stacks you stand a higher chance of getting paired against a 6 stack. 

It's also true that duo queue is only marginally different than solo queue. Instead of, possibly, 5 other randos you only have 4 other randos. The idea here is that even if the other 4 players on the team suck or have poor coordination, the two of you can work off of each other to be a difficult force to beat. Like a PharMercy combo.

Some people also think it's better to group with people higher (SR) than them to get "better" matches. Some people like to group with others lower than them to get "easier" matches. I think the system does well enough to balance all of that so there's only a marginal difference in quality when playing up or down.

Personally, I like to play with specific people. Some friends I like to play with in 2's or 3's. Some I'll play with in 4-6 stacks. It all depends on who's in the group. One guy in the group of friends is a total toxic jerk who, also sucks, always throws a fit at the first thing to go wrong for him. I don't care how many are in the group. I refuse to comp with him. He thinks I'm a dick for that and won't play with me at all. So, win-win for me.

I personally prefer a small'ish group of 2-3 others because of who they are. They all happen to be lower SR than me, lowest is about 800 SR lower, but they're smart people. They come from playing console and were much higher there. They have the game sense and awareness but are still learning the mechanical aspect of playing on PC. I have some of my best [enjoyable] games with them.

Ultimately, I think that's what matters. Not how many people you group with but the quality of people you group with. 
duo queue is probably the best way to go
I always do better when I solo queue. But everyone has their own preference.
provided you work well together with your queue partner and one of you isnt worse than the other by a larger margin you should be able to shift the odds in your favor

because other than your queue partner you get the same exact people youd get while solo queueing. the only difference is the teamwork you can come up with with your friend.

genji-tracer matchup?
How does one win the genji-tracer 1v1 as tracer?

With the introduction of deathmatch, I've been realizing that I feel comfortable taking on pretty much every hero in the game as tracer except genji. I'm not sure what it is but I can NOT ever win a 1v1 with the jumpy fucker. And it's not my aim in particular--I can track him decently, but every encounter is: 1) shoot for a second 2) wait for his deflect to finish 3) i get shuriken-dash combo'ed. 

For one, I'm not really sure what I should be doing while I'm waiting out the deflect animation? Should I be trying to get behind him or what? Also, I try to blink away right before the dash, but I seem to have trouble making my blinks unpredictable enough since the genji will almost always just wait out the blink, turn and dash immediately. And once I burn my recall, it's basically over. These aren't even god-tier genjis, just average ones around my sr (plat). In an actual game, I realize tracer probably shouldn't be focusing a genji anyway, but I really need to stop dying to him without fail if it's a 1v1 situation. 

Any good tips or videos of genji vs tracer would be appreciated. Again, it's not so much aiming at him is the problem, but avoiding his combos and shurikens long enough to actually be able to deal damage.

Thanks!Well you're not really suppose to engage Genji as Tracer but if you HAVE to, there's few tricks I use to win a 1vs1 against Genji :

Don't use your blinks in chain. Keep the "Tracer" rythme : one clip, blink, one clip, blink... Unless he's able to track you perfecly, you will last longer this way. 


When he's deflecting, wait the middle of his CD and blink in his back. You can unload half a clip before he's able to hit you again.


Use diagonal blink, it's more difficult to track.


Be smart, don't keep fighting if you're gonna die. Run away to the next health pack and return to the fight. You're fast enough to reach a healthpack before him and go back to him full life.


If possible, lure him into the nearest mate to help you. Sound silly but really effective, Genji, as every flanker, hate to let a kill go! Like, really hate! He will try to secure the kill and he's often overconfident in his mobility. Use you're own ability to escape and lure him into a trap (a reaper, widow line of sight, a turret...anything).
I think to beat a (good) genji with any character you have to watch his cooldowns. Like doomfist, genji relies heavily on his abilities. If he doesn't have his dash and his deflect, he is pretty much dead. So before he wasted both of them in the duel, he cat still out-play you with them. Rightclick + dash + melee is a high burst damage combo. Most Genjis use it after their deflect runs out. With tracer, you can prepare to doge that by blinking to the side after waiting out the deflect.
Its funny to me because as Genji I don't really know what to do against Tracer.


I hope for a good deflect, but a Tracer can react and make it useless.


My only hopes of reliable damage against your tiny ass hitbox is to get close, but you will only ever be close for a split-second with the dash. You have 3 blinks and a recall, I can't keep up. As long as Tracer keeps well enough away, where I have to hope for miracle precision shurikens to kill her, I feel like she has the edge in a pure 1v1.
This is how I deal with Genji as a Tracer. Works most of the time, unless someone interrupts or I mess it up:

The first thing you have to do is to bait deflect. It gives you 2 seconds to either grab a nearest healthpack or re-position comfortably. If you are low on health or have no Recall, this is enough time to disengage as well. By the end of deflect 95% of Genjis will Dash - either blink behind their back to confuse them or sideways to dodge it like you do with Hook/FB - you already know the exact moment it will be used. If you were hit by Dash at any point of the fight, Recall immediately. Now the real fight begins - you should be at full health with 1-2 Blinks, possibly Recall vs slightly wounded Genji who has no cooldowns. Just a classic Tracer's dance of shoot-blink-reload-shoot - it all depends on your tracking and dodging now, but you have a good advantage overall.
I know what you're feeling man, genji's are a pain in the ass. Here are my advice as a tracer.

1) Save your Recall for his dash.  They'll usually try following it up with a right click or melee.  

2) Genji's usually dash after their recall.  They can't do anything either, so most of them take the time to line you up in the crosshair and then dash.  Try to hide/break LOS.  If you know he doesn't have dash, go in for a melee or two.

3) Genji's are mobile and will try to chase you.  Use this to your advantage.  After turning a corner and losing LOS, I like to crouch and wait for him to come around.  You can get a good clip into him, then blink around the corner again and run back to where you came from.   

4) The easiest time to shoot a genji is if they double jump.  After that they free fall into the air.  Track his movement.  Be careful though, sometimes they'll use this time to deflect.  

5) Try to be at the same distance as McCree (maybe like 10m-20m).  Far enough from Genji being able to use his right click effectively, yet still be able to do decent damage.    

6) Last but not least, if it's not going your way, just run away.  Perks of being a Tracer! 
At the end of his reflect you know that shoot dash combo is coming, you should have at least one blink by that time so just blink to the side or thru him so he can't immediately destroy you 
Shoot at Genji cautiously to bait out deflect, reload when he is deflecting and then use zigzag blinks to make it more difficult for the shurikens to hit.

Most of the time, if you dodge his dash you get the upperhand.

But just try to avoid fighting other flankers since they're usually long pointless fights
Run. Imo.

If you can't run: be ready to blink after the reflect. 

Most genjis are proficient in dueling, so I would recommend being MORE unpredictable. Instead of full clips, mix up with partial clips.
> Keep the "Tracer" rhythm : one clip, blink, one clip, blink... Unless he's able to track you perfectly, you will last longer this way. 

I question if this is worth doing, won't the enemy adapt to the same consistent rhythm and be able to anticipate your next jump?
I agree, tracers are just so mobile D: 
This is the way I approach the fight as well. Shoot in small bursts until reflect comes out, then usually a dash comes shortly after reflect so get ready to blink away from it. After that its a pretty free kill, stay at mid-range and 1-2 clips will finish him off.

Tracking a Genji is very easy if they are in the air and have used their second jump, so if you see an opportunity you can blink closer and one-clip them in the air.
If the ennemy is REAAAAAALLLYY good, he can maybe guess WHEN you're gonna blink, and frankly it's not easy, but he cannot guess WHERE. 

In the end it's situationnal. If your ennemy can easily follow your movement and rythme, break it or run away and come back. The key is being hard to read but the blink and clip rythme is the most optimal DPS pattern you can use as Tracer = either you're shooting his face, either you're blinking = no break.

Zenyatta's role in the new meta
To preface this, I have a Zen one trick account that I got to masters last season with a 70% winrate. With these new changes coming around, especially the DM nerf, I am worried that zen may be countered much easier.

I want to know your guys' thoughts on where zen will be next season and how you see the new nerfs/buffs next season affecting my harmonious and favorite character to play.I'm thinking that he will be the least meta healer, the buff to mercy and the fact that tanks will likely be better means that Ana could see more play. Also defense matrix being worse means that more Ana bullets will land meaning more healing

Mercy is meta shifting in her ptr state, tanks will prop up Ana as well, Lucio will never be bad and can certainly help tank heavy comps

I'm pretty worried about zen this patch
I honestly think that season 6 is going to be faster-paced than previous seasons.  A team wipe is a team wipe -- D.va can't eat it, and Mercy can't Rez it.  So you need to kill the other team before they kill you, as quickly as possible.  Discord orb is helpful for this.  Harmony orb can slow the bleeding if someone can drop out of the fight.  Mercy can "finance" a little bit of over commitment with healing (and Rez) that Zen can't, but that might not be a good tactic in the new meta.  We'll see.

I'm not an expert DPS player, but do pick Soldier from time to time.  When I have a good Zen that discords my targets, the game is easy mode -- free win every time.  Without Zen, Soldier is a lot harder to play.  I think teams will see that value even as the meta shifts around.  Discord orb is a really good ability, and Zenyatta can output a lot of damage.  Mercy and D.va changes don't change that.  Zarya can still bubble you (for when Doomfist solo ults you, as he loves to do), and you can still output damage from behind a Rein shield.  I think it's going to be a fine time for Zen.  Just don't get EMP'd.
I'm predicting an increase in Zen's play time, with his having one of the two remaining counter Ults in the game.  
I think hes gonna get dropped for Mercy TBQH. Being able to save a push from a rando one off death without having to wait for respawn is just too powerful.
I think Season 5 has opened a lot of people's eyes to Zen, and I don't think he will disappear from the meta too quickly. I think he'll remain a fair strong pick, especially on defence and maps with good sight lines. 
I think a zen Lucio comp will still work in masters, esp with pharmercy back u will be needed for that too. However he prob will be map/situational based pick now. More likely on offense than Def is my guess 
Trickshotting widows will be shredding his **thicc** head hitbox 33% more often.
I was getting really worried about Zen climbing into the meta during the Dive era. I was so fucking great with Zen in Season 3 because nobody knew him well enough and he flew way under the radar. I will definitely stand to benefit if he falls back down because then there's no competition over Zen and I can go back to being ungodly with him.

Will that actually happen, though? To be honest I sorta doubt it. With tanks resurfacing, Zenyatta is important as ever with the Discord orb. He might never ever go Zen+Lucio again but Zen+(Mercy | Ana) still seems really plausible. He can melt Orisa worse than Hog and take care of other tanks fairly well.
The shoe goes on both feet. He'll still be strong because he won't have to keep his discord on the enemy Dva 99% of the match. 
He'll probably fall out of favor after Mercy rework, I think. Still though, discords and transcendence can come in super clutch in the right hand
With all the changes I think Zeny will drop a bit on the pick rate.
The solo reason that he grew up was the fact of an super dive meta, and it is falling away...

But, Zeny is a hellof a good hero, the meta changing for an bulkier meta will make the life of an Zenyatta player much easier, allowing for an safe play supporting your team and dealing tons of damage.

In my opinion he is the best hero to master if you like to solo Q
With the DM nerf, Pharah+Mercy will be even more dominant, and Zen is integral to countering that strategy.

With the DM nerf, D.va will be returning to harassment / dive duty instead of Winston, and Winston will thus see less play in a slight increase in Rein's favor now that Ana is also more viable as a result. Zen pairs fantastically with Rein + hitscan if you want to run Ana-Zen as support.

The lack of Winston is good news for Zen in general, since he had no means of escape other than to hopefully kill the Winston first. This means a decline in Winstons who prey on Zens, thus giving him more space, and if this decline means an increase in Reins and Orisas, then Zen will be receiving additional space.

With the DM nerf, you will also see more Reapers coming into the field, a hero who is most effectively dispatched by Discord orb and focus fire both pre- and post-DM nerf. 

The new Tracer I genuinely believe will be a problem without DM, but her effectivity might be more tied to the general framework of dive comp than we give it credit: if dive comp becomes less prevalent, it might expose less skilled Tracers to greater danger since they don't have the support of a dive comp to zip around.

We also have to wait and see whether Doomfist settles in the meta as a backline enforcer or not, and assess its effectivity: it might come to fill with damage the role that DM used to fill defensively. I have even seen ideas thrown around of a more defensive variant of Winston, but it's all so speculative that a hundred ideas will rise and one idea will stand. We just don't know which yet.

**What I'm trying to say is that consequences DM's interactions in the meta are *waaaaaay* too complex to take the risk of throwing around hyperboles about Zen's viability.**
lots of people think mercy will replace zen but this wont happen. can mercy discord? no, end of topic. zen will almost always be the superior pick for triple dps and dive comps.
> I have a Zen one trick account that I got to masters last season with a 70% winrate

Wait a minute here.  I'm sorry but I'm a little suspicious about this claim.

You had a season end win rate of 70% and didn't get into GM?

Even chipshajen, arguably one of the best Zen players in the world only had a 63% win rate for the season.  Most pro players don't ever hit 65% win rates by end of season.
D.VA's defense matrix being cut in half has me excited for 50% more rootin tootin ball shootin as zen. 
I'm only plat - but I don't think Zen will be worse off in any Meta.

1. can always use his discords to kill stuff faster
2. his ultimate counter is still amazing and can help team
3. he's a killing machine

I only have a hard time as Zen if I'm constantly being harassed without any protection, I get that DVA is getting a nerf, but that's only 1 character, and any teammate who is a tank or dps may be able to help you out in a jam.

Aiming for diamond level zen this season. Just gotta work on my elims lol
2-2-2 meta gonna shine again. and with 2 tanks meta lucio+zen ain't gotta cut it fam!!!
Well dang, I just bought his golden weapon because I wanted "golden nuts." I've been playing since season 1 and this was my first golden gun :(
I almost hope he is the least meta. I've had great success maining Zen even when I almost never saw anyone else picking him. Discord and charge shots are consistently underestimated and I think he's a very strong pick in the right hands.
These were some of my exact worries
You're considering the healers in a vacuum and forgetting why Zen was so good to begin with: dive. It just depends on if dive goes away or not. I suppose there's a chance they replace him in dive completely but that seems very unlikely.
Increased Ana pick rates will certainly hurt Zen, seeing that her Nade just fucks up his Transcendence.
Also soldier gets a huge buff due to the dva DM nerfs and not having to worry about res, which are the 2 biggest things to think about when using nano visor
Ana won't be used because she doesn't have an ult that can counter massive amounts of damage. Zen and Lucio will be used solely for their ults that prevent damage. Zen might be run just because Zarya is a thing and he can counter grav.
As an up and coming Ana main, this is good news. Maybe this season I'll make it out of gold :V
Tank changes don't change Ana's current role, tank heavy comps will be shredded by reaper with no DM to save them. 

With DM nerf graviton is much stronger meaning transcendence is your best option to prevent team wipe. Also if a tank heavy meta came around again then discord so strong against them. 

All in all I wouldn't be worried about zen! :) 
I really dont think tanks will be meta again. Defense matrix nerf means reaper can shred pretty much any tanks and his ult is going to be eaten half as much as it was before
He's fallen behind and mercy the already #1 support is probably shooting up higher
dont be, hes still go to support for attack and koth, hes still better than mercy(except pharahmercy on koth) and ana
This as well - Dive attackers/tanks really capitalize on zens discord. In a slow Meta he will be suffering but like any other character he will have a place in PUB play. 
Can you elaborate? I don't quite follow.

There was a time when Zen wasn't meta despite his ult being strong
maybe in plat yes, but you dont know the terror of high elo zen
Especially with Doomfist, DVA and Tracer being as good as they are now 
And he's also strong against those who were previously stopped by DM (except maybe nanovisor and skilled Tracer).
https://www.overbuff.com/players/psn/Z3NY44TT4?mode=competitive

Here is my overbuff. I only played like 40 games since I made this account about a week before the season ended. I guess my winrate and stuff is irrelevent in this discussion. 

I just wanted a discussion about Zen. That is all.
There was a comment I saw not too long ago about how someone experienced SR gains and losses being drastically different when playing Zen. As in, he wouldn’t gain very much for a win and would lose a ton when losing. So, he just ended up playing other heroes most of the time. Seems like OP dealt with the same issue. 
I had a >70% winrate and only got to mid diamond.
At my highest I had a 70% win rate over a sample of over 100 matches with Zen and could not get out of high gold. For every win I'd get 15 SR but for every loss I'd lose devastating amounts like 30. Eventually I settled at 64% since I mentally gave up.
Dont even sweat it.  Not a single drop.  Sure, zen might not be the character that fits into the meta the best, his competition is pretty tough atm.  However, zenyatta will always be the best at what he does.  Countering ultimates with his, most consistent long range dps of healers, discord for easy picks, etc.  These are always going to be useful on a team, it just means the way you play him changes and he may not be as easy.  But if you've got the golden nuts and can do your job as zen consistently I still think he's going to be an incredibly good character and imo one of the best to carry yourself with since he heals and dps while providing pressure with ranged damage and discord, meaning you dont always have to "initiate" since you can start a fight with a discord pick and just play the numbers advantage.  So in that way you can do what tanks do, initiate and start fights.  So that's my defense of zenyatta in this meta and I hope your nuts get you to gm.
There are a lot of torb one tricks in grandmaster. Every hero is viable in the right hands, don't sweat it
If you've been playing that long and just got your first golden weapon, you're in the same spot as me. Where meta doesn't matter anyway.
I know the feeling, I bought roadhog's gold gun the day before his nerf was announced. 3000 comp points on a useless hero
You will never, ever regret your purchase of golden nuts. Zen will always float in and out of the meta and the pro meta rarely has anything to do with the meta at your elo.
I bought Hog's like two days before his nerf. I've played him like 8 times since.
He's always gonna be good in organised play and if you don't get dived then you can really help out your team
The best dive tank is going away, so...
You know I see people say this a lot but does it really? Trans in a Grav, sure, hard countered, but I'm almost always using Trans to save myself and then help my teammates who are usually spread out a decent bit so Ana's nade wouldn't really do anything. I honestly can't even think of a single time I've had Trans countered at all by a nade, with ~100 games this season on my GM Zen one trick alt, and hundreds of hours on my main. Not even Gravs really, although I'm sure there have been a couple I just don't remember. 
I've noticed the good Zaryas (like the good Genjis) try to bait out Transcendence or just plain wait for it go down before ulting. I'm surprised nobody has mentioned the rise in Zarya's popularity resulting in discord being stripped off the enemy quite often. Having to recast it so often means you're firing less and doing less damage.
Zen can counter grav

But Ana counters Transcendence with an granade...

Granade + lucio amp can save from a trans if you have a shield...

Mercy's ult can also save from an Grav if Ana puts her granade...
better than mercy? I don't see any way mercy isn't the best healer next season
Sure! Lucio has the strongest support Ult in the game, in that it can cancel out or at the very least mitigate every offensive Ult with good timing, except possibly Hanzo though Amp It Up offsets that, while still allowing allies to act. 

Zenyatta and Mercy have been previously close in that Transcendence counters most offensive Ults, while still allowing allies to act, and Rez counters all Ults, but requires allies to die first which costs time, positioning, and feeds charge.

Currently, Mercy cannot counter any enemy Ults without the help of an Ana grenade, or Lucio amp. Also, Lucio gains the benefit of his shield, and Zenyatta becomes invulnerable during Transcendence, Mercy only maintains her static 20 hps making her extremely vulnerable to any Ult she is attempting to counter.

As best as I can tell, in an ideal triple tank scenerio, she might be able to counter a 76, Genji, Roadhog Ult that didn't target her first, but not much more effectively than she could have without using it, as M's hps remains static. Any other Ult (Reaper, Pharah, D.Va, Tracer, Junkrat, McCree, Doomfist, Bastion, Hanzo) will kill Mercy before she can be effective enough to save her team.

The primary argument to this that I see is "Most teams get a pick for 6-5 advantage then move in, and Mercy counters that." The issue is that if you have a Mercy too, then now you have 7-6 advantage, and if you don't then you have two supports who can counter Ult and they only have one.

tl;dr We've gone Poke at the Choke, Deathball, Beyblade, Triple Tank, Dive for the last few metas. With Mercy and D.Va changes S6 will be all about Ults and M fails at that.
I wouldn't go that far, but hes just constantly down a discord orb because it takes the entire team to focus her at once.
First of all, my apologies, that is some god tier zen play there.  Very well done.

Second, I think zen's role will be defined on what the S6 meta season turns out to be, and in my opinion, DVa is the wildcard here with her new rockets.

I'm guessing that an aggressive dive with the new DVa + winston accurately hitting the jump + discord could potentially be an extremely strong opening play to delete enemy squishies.  The problem is, I'm not sure how good DVa is going to be with her reduced DM.

There could also be the exact opposite if the meta shifts to tanks, especially with the rework of Orisa's shield and fire rate.  Obviously zen doesn't do well in tank heavy meta.
First off, seeing your stats page makes me really sad - I have better stats than you for nearly everything (you beat me on KDR, because of fewer deaths) and you're a solid 800 SR above me. I was stuck in the 2900-3200 range all season long... Guess I've got more work to do.

Secondly, it'll depend on how well your team can answer Pharmacy (which will be even more common now). If they keep her out of the air, Zen will be a great pick. If they can't (my main issue), then he's probably better swapped off of.
My goodness those are sick stats. I need to learn how to Zen better! 
I assume this based around your stats for the matches you play then?

better accuracy, more healing, more hero damage...etc = more SR gained for that match?
Great words of wisdom my friend! GM is my goal this season so your comment is very uplifiting and motivating.
I'm high gold/low plat, I just rarely played comp until this season. 
This is why you be a meme and just buy golden torbjorn despite being a lucio main ;)
Is "Oldhog" considered a meme by now? 

I did the exact same thing.
Same here :(And the other mistake was buying Lucio's golden gun 2 days before his rework hit ptr. Also rarely played him afterwards. D.Va (most played in S5) was next on my list but I think I better hold of here until I know whats going on with here.Thought of rewarding Zen with golden balls now since he carried my ass out of bronze to plat in Season 2 and now hope he will still be viable in the new meta.
Pro games have Zen on both teams almost all the time...I know the community is all 'what pro games?' and will downvote me for mentioning it...but he has been like 100% meta in pro games for the past few seasons. 
She's better at diving than before. And triple DPS dive could come back. 
This sub in a nutshell. They spend more time complaining about hypothetical scenarios that very rarely happen during your average ladder match.

DM blocking Ana shots is not a 100% given and I rarely had an issue, Grenade countering Trans I've had happen maybe once in a Gravitron in 300 matches this season, Doomfist hitting every single punch in existence without fail and always getting a kill like this sub would make you believe, Mercy getting 10 huge rezzes per match, etc etc. 
I might not be GM, but from what I've found in diamond, the big burst heal you get from popping trans is usually more valuable than the extra few seconds of the ult.

I've also found it hard to land good nades on Ana with D.Va and Winston everywhere.
I'm only in diamond, but I have definitely soft countered transcendence with a nade. I usually only hit 1-2 people with a nade, but that's enough. I hit them, I call it out, my team focuses them. It doesn't happen every time, but it's not like it never ever happens....
what you played on ptr wont go live, just wait
Its ok my dude. No apologies needed. I was thinking that the discord might help alot if a tank heavy meta is on the horizon, but as an earlier commentor said, ana might be more useful in that situation.

Overall I will still use him of course but, hopefully, I do not get flamed or told to switch to mercy, because I hate playing merky.

I'm not entirely sure about Dive; Doomfist is a fairly strong counter to dive, and Roadhog might be moving a bit more into the meta adding more peeling.

Plus, Dive metas tend to hinge a lot on getting quick picks, Mercy's new rez seems like a fairly hard counter to heroes that rely on single picks.
I'm super frustrated... it feels like Zen is left behind as well as Ana. With everyone getting buffs and Zens health remaining so low, with no movement, slow projectiles, BIG hit box, I feel a lot of Zen mains are going to be seriously hurt this next season. 
Don't worry my dude you will make it masters this season! You got this. 

I placed at 3014 so that may have helped speed me through.
Didn't make a difference. I had 10k healing, 40 eliminations and something, 36% accuracy in a match, which was my 4th win in a row, and got less SR than the following match in which I didn't really have the chance to do much and had something really average like 15 eliminations, 5k healing. 

This combined with unlucky teams close to my promotion contributed to feeling let down by the system and I can feel I don't play as good as I did anymore. 
If you have the game sense and mechanical skill of a GM player I would say he's still overall the best support to climb ranked with.
wait... do you get a golden hammer as well?
But new lucio is better lol. Though new dva should be worse
How do you define "few seasons"?

If you look at Overbuff's pro "meta reports" for the past several months, you'll see Zen hasn't really been on both teams all the time.

Sample reports starting with Competitive Play season 4:

* [March](https://www.overbuff.com/blog/2017-03-31-overwatch-hero-tier-list-and-meta-report-something-strange-is-afoot-in-korea): 16% usage rate
* [April](https://www.overbuff.com/blog/2017-04-19-overwatch-hero-tier-list-and-meta-report-rogue-squadron): 15%
* [May](https://www.overbuff.com/blog/2017-05-25-overwatch-hero-tier-list-and-meta-report-anniversary-time-capsule): 42%
* [June](https://www.overbuff.com/blog/2017-06-22-overwatch-hero-tier-list-and-meta-report-putting-in-overtime): 53%
* [July](https://www.overbuff.com/blog/2017-07-12-overwatch-hero-tier-list-and-meta-report-a-meta-abridged): 52%
* [August](https://www.overbuff.com/blog/2017-08-22-overwatch-hero-tier-list-and-meta-report-fists-of-fury): 56%

...all a far cry from Lucio's usage rates (steadily above 90%).
Yeah, when they buffed his movement speed during transcend you could actually use it to heal people in soloQ...more than half the time I'm zooming around between critical teammates, while blocking a nanovisor or something, or supporting a tank push into the cap point surrounded by turrets or snipers.
Yeah, although it depends on how grouped up your team is, the initial burst is usually the most important and the last couple seconds are generally used to reposition. The chaos that ensues is an amazing Flankyatta opportunity to get behind a support and kill them, which is usually what I do unless there are 2 and they're pretty close to each other. 

In a Grav though most of the ult is equally important. Sometimes though you want to hold Trans for as long as possible to bait out other ults, e.g. Blade. I don't see people do it a lot but it pops up occasionally Masters+. They use Grav to bait Trans, kill as many as possible without ults, then push with other ult(s) once it ends if needed. 
Yeah but in my experience it doesn't happen enough to be acknowledged as often as it is. People act like it's some sort of foolproof hard counter when a) ana is extremely uncommon (at least on PS4) and b) even if she happens to be alive and in a position to do it with the nade off cool down  it's just a minor annoyance
>Mercy

There's another potential problem that I see for the beginning of S6 that might be a major plus for you.

I have a feeling there will be a very rude awakening for long time one trick mercys who might have a tough time adjusting to the new rework.

You as a zen player should try to capitalize on this and really focus mercy hard as well as encourage your team to do the same as many clunky mercy players hit the ground early in S6.

Initially for S6, I would bet zen being a heavy hitter contributor to your team as long as you are not expected to main heal.
Mercy passively gets hit hard, a 1 man ult reset upon ult activation, so a 2 man rez and she get chain healing and flying, sounds good but it's like transcendace, lob an Ana nade in the middle of the chain healing, pop hammer or blade and it's gg for the mercy and friends, is it as easy as that? Not at all, but her ult works a lot like trans and I believe she's not immune like Zen, which means if you can't get the team just nade her, she's loses her active healing and with her dead the team loses out a main healer and if they don't have sound barrier or a counter Ana for the burst heals it'll be a pretty easy wipe also. We have to wait til she hits live to see how the meta will shift and she will be top pick but she has decent counters and with the dva nerf Ana is gonna see more play 
I mean yeah technically 150 HP but then 50 *regenerating* shields so actually better than most heroes. Projectile speed isn't really a problem at all. Damage in general really. GM Zen one trick (alt), not really that big of a deal. Zen's pretty much always been viable and since he himself hasn't been changed,  I doubt he's going anywhere.
I've got a Zen one trick alt too. (4.1K, PS4 as well) I placed exactly 3K and got 100 SR per win until 3.4K, which went down as I gained SR. I'm curious, did you have similar SR gains at the beginning? 
I started the season at 2200, and with nothing other than Zen's improved place in the meta got up to 3200 peak this season.

Here's to Season 6.
so how are some getting 100sr per win? what are they doing to achieve that? 

I've only ever had max 25ish for a win, -30 for a loss
Yes!
Agreed, however I don't like his new play style. I played something in between the new and the layer back Lucio... Other thing that drove me away is that you can be a great Lucio but the carry potential is very small and you are more team dependent than any other character.
I meant winning teams lol ;p
That was very similar to my sr gains at first. Once I hit 3.3k it started to slow down a bit and I lost a couple. 
what sort of stats are you getting to achieve 100sr gains per match? I've never seen anything like that figure. Didn't even know it was possible. 

How can the gain be so high per win?
> so how are some getting 100sr per win?

Not since season 4 they aren't
Pretty common for decay and alts, the game is pretty sure you don't belong there but doesn't know for certain so it places you lower and gives you huge SR gains. I only got it until 3.4K, and then it slowly dropped to normal values as I got closer to GM. [Here are my stats though if you're curious.](https://www.overbuff.com/players/psn/Flankyatta?mode=competitive)

5 Ways To Prepare During the Off-Season
For those that want to see the short video: https://youtu.be/AMMvZqwrLrg

**1. Check out the latest patch notes/PTR**  

The site for the latest patch notes is here (https://playoverwatch.com/en-us/game/patch-notes/pc). It's important to keep up to date with the latest hero changes so that you aren't surprised when you start your placement matches later. Roadhog is pretty decent now :)

**2. Try out Deathmatch, it's a lot of fun!**

Deathmatch is a breath of fresh air that can help you work on 1v1's. It's really nice in this mode to not need to worry about teammates or wait times. You can pretty much hop in and the action is fast paced.

**3. Check out the pro scene at Winston's Lab** 

https://www.winstonslab.com/ This site does a fantastic job of helping you find all the pro matches that are happening and gives you tons of great info to learn from. Vod links can be found easily here!

**4. Wawa's boot camp**

Discord- https://discord.gg/zh9HQmV - I would highly recommend checking out the discord and consider looking for a coach. It can be great to get feedback on your own performance and this place is great to work with. It was very easy to find a coach and the best part, it's free!

**5. Overwatch University League (OWUL)** 

Discord - https://discord.gg/owuniversity - If you haven't joined the OWUL discord yet, it is a great way to supplement your competitive games. OWUL is a fun Overwatch league for all SR's to participate. The goal is to get all teams matched up against other teams of similar ranks so that we can all improve. If you don't already have a team, sign up as a free agent and keep an eye on the LFT chat to see if you can group up.

If you have any questions or tips of your own let me know!1 vs 1 on Deathmatch my ass, I have been gangbanged by 3 guys , but still good suggestions
Played a bunch of deathmatch the last couple days. When I played QP after my accuracy with Tracer was averaging around 40% with one game ending with 58% accuracy. 
Thanks so much. My goal is to push out of silver to diamond this season. I did my S5 placement matches right after I turned level 25 and didn't know anything about the game then. Now I am able to consistently get #1 in DM with soldier.
-6. Spam Widow in quickplay
I've been enjoying DM but I feel like it almost detracts from any training I'm doing other than basic aim/move. Most of the time I'm dying to someone I wasn't fighting.
[deleted]
One day of Team DM has shown me more about playing off-areas of maps than all the comp I've ever played.

It's honestly really enlightening and fun.  It's showing me how to take advantage of point transitions in places people are not used to having a midfight in.
Don't forget to rest! Your brain is part of a living animal, and fatigue will drop your real performance more than any other factor. Take a few days off from OW, get lots of sleep, and you'll be making better decisions and hitting more headshots when you return. gl hf
Would highly recommend trying death match and staying away from off season ranked. At least from my experience as a GM I Constantly get matched with Plats and diamonds with HUGE egos that expect me to carry them and go Into a blind rage over mic when they see I'm just playing for fun. Yet we're a team of 6 DPS and the enemies actually have a good team comp....  Found it more toxic in 2 days then all of season 5 combined in my experience
You're 2 days late pal
>I have been gangbanged by 3 guys
 
Hmmm, seems off topic. But how'd the 1v1 go?
Plus DM is about opportunistic killing. You just need to vulch the KB. The person you kill shouldn't even know you were shooting at them because they were engaged with someone else.
Don't worry, you are going to have both good and bad games. Sometimes you will pick Roadhog and everyone else picks Reaper :-P
That is a pretty good pickup in accuracy. Nice!
3 tiers higher in one season? That's an ambitious goal.
Don't wanna sound like an asshole telling you can't but it's pretty hard. Last season I just went from bronze to plat and that was hard, took about ~125 games. My friend who played 3 times as many games as me is a game off plat. I don't think death match should be a real indicator of skill either because it's probably pairing you against similar mmr people. It's definitely possible to go from silver to diamond but it takes a lot of skill and a lot of time.
Take it one step at a time and I am sure you can go far. I would highly recommend Wawa's boot camp to find a coach to review your gameplay footage. And if you want to continue learning, get a team and join the OWUL, it's a lot of fun and a great place to train.
I have a goal of a new season high each season and a lighter goal of moving up a rank. Took me 2 seasons to move through gold to borderline plat (not playing much comp) ranked silver for S4 which was my lowest and had to grind my ass off to hit plat at the end. S5 I got halfway to diamond but ended in the high 24XX, did hit a new season high though.



I'm not at all saying you can't do it! Just be aware it can be *tough* to both climb and stay there and don't feel bad about lowering your goals as the season progresses. Focusing on rank in this game is a recipe for stress and anxiety and made me play alot worse.
Where did you end last season? Im in silver as well
If you were truly good, you would play Widowmaker in Deathmatch :-P
As a terrible widow, I've actually had some fun in custom all widow headshots only mode.
The team DM seems a bit better in that sense, but there is something to learning how to survive longer in DM.
There's something to be said about fighting smarter in DM. Yes, you will get killed by people you didn't even know were there, but I feel like you can lower that with smarter play. In my case I rarely don't end up in top 4 mostly in 2nd or 3rd, but I also end up having the highest or second highest death count because I give up good positioning or take risks too often. 

Also sometimes you can attribute your deaths via getting ganged up on to taking too long to hit your shots. I've definitely had this happen where if I'm taking too long in a long range duel vs a hanzo or something someone else will more than likely swoop in to clean up either me or my opponent. It is frustrating, but it kinda makes you realize you should be more efficient with your kills/improve your aim. 
Wawa's boot camp is really a great resource. Literally when I asked for coaching, they provide a list of coaches that can help with the hero you play.

I have been stuck at platinum, but I think this season is when everything changes!
Team DM is suprisingly fun! I agree!
Resting is a good idea to depending on how much you may have grinded in the previous season.
Weirdly enough, I did a few hours of off season ranked and had a very positive experience.

The biggest difference maker was that I ended up getting invited to a team and we used competitive as a way to test out our 6-stack. We were able to play against decent competition and had a better experience than what I usually find in quick play.

Moral of the story, step 5 (finding a team) has already had an impact on me. I didn't even mind playing support when I had a bunch of team members working together.

I however imagine that solo queue is complete crud right now.
Totally, but honestly this feels like good timing since the new patch was released. I was originally going to suggest logging onto PTR. (Most people know about this anyways, but it's kinda here for newer people).
That's why in my opinion the scoreboard should also show the hero damage done instead of just assists and eliminations.
Bursty heroes are good, others not so much, lucio is just annoying to kill if they're good. Heroes like Genji, Widow, Junkrat, Pharah, etc. that can put out high damage and/or finishing moves on command do the best. 

Personally its boring to me, played one match, saw a junkrat spamming into a fight and getting all the last hits and left. 

Team Deathmatch on the otherhand is actually somewhat fun and actually competitive, aside from the fact the maps that weren't made for it are obviously poor. One team spawns on/ claims the high ground = domination that is very hard to uproot if they know what they're doing. Particularly Volskaya and the upper platform of which is only accessible by one lift, unless you have a mobility move you're pretty screwed. Thankfully no ones really abused that yet. 
Or you find yourself in a Phara plantation
I went from silv to diamond in season 3. It's possible. 
What's wrong with being ambitious? I think my skill has improved and I now have a 4/5 man queue instead of solo.
I went from silver to Masters in S3, no joke. It took a lot of time and dedication though.
I went from Silver to Diamond in Seasons 2-4 respectively. In one season it'd be tough, especially since they are only 2 months long. I'd say 2 seasons would be more reasonable. 2 months just isn't enough time for most people's brains to process everything there is to improve on in OW.
If I went from gold to masters in season 3, everyone can :)

DM is a shitty skill indicator because people just rob kills left and right. Totally agree
You definitely have a point there. DM tries to match with people of similar level. It has value for training, but is an entirely different beast than trying to win competitive games.
How big was your queue 
1995
That would mean I'm good at widow :D

Won 4/5 rounds widow deathmatch. But still I am not comfortable playing widow that often in ranked because I'm always getting yelled at before the game even starts. Still widow is like my best or maybe second best hero. 
Do you know what coaching entails? 
Yeah it was solo Q.  Stacking with friends should be much better experience that's good....  If u have frens
You should get the kill if you did the most damage
Or a genji gazebo
Ok next round I am just going to camp in the corner with Symmetra :-P
Honestly I think solo is the best to climb unless your 4-5 man have dedicated rolls and each player can flex depending on the enemy team comp/map 
Don't worry, nothing wrong with being ambitious.

If you train and focus on improving, you can do it!
Nothing, as long as you don't get disappointed if it doesn't happen
Question. What do you think about the fact that some(not sure if most) solo players don't really like getting queued with people in 4/5 groups? It makes the game unnecessarily unfun if the enemy 4/5 stack is better than yours and communicating a lot as a solo player there's not much you can do. It used to feel like that on League last season too where you could queue as 4 and the solo player getting stuck in that game.
I ended up placing Bronze in either S2 or S3 and climbed to mid Gold. 


This last season I was placed in mid-Silver and was 2-3 wins from Gold again before dropping like 300 points after changing mouse settings. It was also the time Doomfist was released and Winston became popular (I main D.Va.) 


My confidence is shot even though I spent all summer learning all that I could. But all the strats are for people that play together on the high ground rather than fighting on the ground defending on Dorado. And I pretty much only play tanks and healers so there is only so much I can do. 
Time and dedication or playing mercy :thinking: 
What do you mean?
When I asked for coaching about 3 months ago, I was given a list of potential coaches to contact. I would send a DM on discord (only one message, no spam) and simply explain why I DM'd and what help I was asking for. If you have simple questions it can be one and done. I would however recommend coming in with some VOD's so you can ask for a review.

After that it is up to the coach to respond and tell you what they can do. Both the coaches I contacted were eager to help out and were easy to work with. If I wanted to, I could continue with them, but at the time I simply got a VOD reviewed and asked for a few general tips.
Actually, I should say new friends because I only met them last night. I just went into the LFT channel on OWUL and looked for teams that needed players at around 2.7k SR. I found a team and it looks like we are already a pretty good fit for each other.

If you are interested in working with a team, I would highly recommend doing the same thing.
Symmetra sauna? 
How is that? Surely communicating is a better way of securing wins than constantly putting your fate in randomers hands 
I went from gold to masters during season 4 by playing symmetra... Sometimes you just need to go with what you are skilled at/most enjoy playing. 

As much as people like to say that she is a skill-less hero, a lot of things can be done to help be successful with her (one of those being positioning) I think she has helped me be aware and adjust my position the most out of any one hero.
Actually it was mostly D.va and Lucio. I don't really like Mercy. 
Was a gold mercy main, then started playing zenyatta + tracer and climbed to masters. Am I doing it wrong?
Sorry, people you queued up with/people in your group 
Noob question but how do you make a VOD? 
Because you're also queuing vs other people communicating. So you have to have above avg communication or you can just have strong players that can flex plus avg communication. 
Not sure why you were downvoted for asking a question. But personally I agree with Cool-Sage. I've played probably two thirds of my time in a group and one third solo que and I've done significantly more climbing solo. Personally I am pretty flexible and play mostly supports and tanks. Also I'd say I have better game sense / shotcalling / communication then mechanical skill. I think being flexible (especially on roles people don't want to play) and shotcalling to some extent without sounding bossy has helped me a ton. 
Because if the randoms have hit gm/master why wouldn't I need to trust them? 
That's pretty funny I did the same thing by playing my best hero (junk) and I went silver-diamond
I grouped with like 1-2 people or solo-queued. Irl friends that started at the same time.
You just need some software to record your gaming session.

My personal recommendation would be to use OBS (https://obsproject.com/)

It generally requires a decent computer so that you can record and not lose too much FPS at the same time.
To climb? I'm not a Gm, so that's not how I see things
Thanks! Would it be better to provide a video of a game where I played well or where I struggled? (Or i guess both?)
It works for every tier. If your teammates are in the same tier as you why not trust them? 
Almost 100% of the time, you will learn more from losses. Wins aren't nearly as helpful.
Because at Gold not everyone is a serious player. It's not hard to get ranked at Gold no matter what, and therefore you have a mixed bag of people who want to try to win and get a decent comp and play well and people who just play for fun and don't know much about the game and don't mind going afk etc. Also, there's a difference between the people who I team with, who are gold but only because they barely ever play, they're much better than gold standard, and the people who play all the time but aren't as good. There's so many gold players compared to GM that's it's nowhere near the same. 
Because looking at my gameplay, I wouldn't trust me. Why would I trust them?
I've played from bronze-gm. I really love the people in gold the most. It might be a mixed bag but majority of the golds I've played with while solo q-ing have always been ready to learn, trying to improve and were generally much less toxic. 

I've seen gold players play with a specific hero(usually their mains) at a diamond/master lvl but the only thing they are missing is awareness or proper management of specific skills, etc. Missing these little vital things is what makes them be in whatever tier they are in. Honestly I trust golds more then a trust plat or diamonds. 
Are you trying to improve? Well maybe your teammates are too. They might be bad/good in specific situations but the whole reason behind comp is climbing the ladder, in doing so getting better as you climb further. 

Yes, I've noticed if things don't start out well some people quit instantly, or someone else D.C.'s instantly tilting you and your entire team whilst motivating the enemy and they do happen frequently. So some advice on how to counter this? 

I've noticed that talking in team chat in the beginning to try to get to know your team, talk about who plays what, or randomly babling about something interesting gets people more comfortable with their team. Also encouraging your teammates, making call outs or even making a remark like "we'll get them next push" makes people want to stay and if y'all win or lose sometimes people in that lobby will send you a friend request just b/c you positively reinforced your teammates. 

This isn't a Guarantee but it works for me majority of the times I play. 

Junkertown | Secret/Bug Spots and Rocket Jumps
Hey everyone.

We haven't posted here in a while. However, seeing as how Blizzard just released Junkertown, we thought it might be worth investing some time into covering some of the useful/hard to get to spots and routes on the map for Soldier and other high ground characters like Widow/Pharah. Hopefully this can help some: https://youtu.be/V_XH9yu9sho

Any and all criticism greatly appreciated.

Cheers,
mimi
Picking up Mei
Hi, as the title says I'm looking to play Mei in comp. I've been enjoying playing her a lot more in DM and QP. But there doesn't seem to be a lot of material to watch of a lot of good Meis. I know that Seagull plays her occasionally, but no one who plays her consistently either on twitch or youtube.
So if anyone has any advice or knows any good streamers/videos of good mei players it would be much appreciated.Jardio plays a great Mei, highly recommend his channel. Mei is my go to in ranked, but I wouldn't say she's an ideal hero to main. Definitely play her as much as you can because there will be games where absolutely nobody can kill you, but also be ready to switch.

She preys on disorganized teams and inattentive tanks. The downside of that?  She also shows your opponents exactly what they need to change in order to win. Once they adapt, you have to make a judgement call as to whether you can get the kills your team needs when you have to blow all of your abilities just to stay alive.

Again, I'm not saying she is bad or that you shouldn't play her! She is so much fun and you should give her a try, but be self aware. She can make a player feel very busy and effective even when they aren't having much impact.


Jardio was on the OmnicLab podcast the other day, for a "going deep" episode on Mei. You should check it out!
http://www.omniclab.com/podcast/62-ol-going-deep-mei-with-jardio
Defense on Gibraltor with Mei, unstoppable.
She is sick on first point Hollywood, Hamamura, all of Nepal. I don't recommend Numbani, Lunar Colony, or Kings Row. There are to many entrances and so your walls don't usually get good payoff.
Thanks that's great advice! I'll definitely check out Jardio. Are there any maps and attack/defense which you think she excels at and if so which? 
What are your go-to heroes when you have to switch ?
THanks, I'll have to check it out :D
Anywhere with a choke so you can walk off a main tank as he walks through and wreck their push. Example: nepal sanctum and village. 

When to pick a certain healer.
I main the four healers. Can someone give advice as to when certain healers should be selected?

E.g. 

Pick X when solo healing,

Pick X when pairing with XYZ 

Pick X on KOTH

Pick X to counter XYZ. 

I realise these would be super general, rules of thumb. But help is appreciatedPick Mercy/Ana for solo healing.

Pick Ana when you already have Lucio. Pick Lucio when you already have Ana.

Pick Lucio+Zen when you dive.

Pick Zen+Ana when vs hard flankers.

Pick Zen vs Pharmercy.

Pick Ana when you triple tank.

Pick Zen/+Mercy when your team is very mobile.

Pick Mercy if you have pharah + someone on high ground.

I'd say that. 

Edit: Lucio+anyone else on KOTH.

Edit2: I forgot my fav! If you have 5 dps - pick Zen.
First-pick Zenyatta right away every time.

If you only play healers then your team should know it right away.

If you first-pick Ana or Mercy then the team might decide to make you a solo healer. Not ideal. 


Picking Zenyatta (or to a lesser extent Lucio) tells your tank mains that the team will have at least one healer and it also encourages the rest of the team to "supplement" your Zenyatta's healing.  Picking Zenyatta increases the odds that you'll have a second healer. 


If the team still nominates you to solo-heal then you can always just switch to Mercy or Ana.
I'd go as far to say that Ana fits everywhere unless she's with a Mercy (too much healing and no other support buffs is bad, unless you're running Pharmercy)  

Lucio also fits with everything.  

Zen and Mercy is great for defense from what I've seen due to damage boost stack and defensive ultimates.  

Zen and Lucio is great for dive and it surprisingly works with highly mobile tanks as they usually have second wind/mobility to disengage after every scrimmage to heal up.  

If you have a Rein, Ana is necessary imo.  

Sombra is great for 2CP but it's best to have at least two supports like Zen and Lucio or solo Ana/Mercy in the backline for more sustain.  

If you're running an unfortunate 5 man dps team, I've noticed Lucio is usually the best because they have to come to you for healing and it forces them to group up to focus targets which in turn kinda works out okay (if you're in QP).  

Also Zen is good when shit isn't dying and you need the salty healer pick lol. 
Start off by picking any healer and then swap based off a couple of criteria. 

When considering Ana look at how many tanks you have on your side. Do you have at least 2? I would consider someone else for hog/Zarya and another tank. Do you have someone that is good to combo ultimate with? Rein and winston are both O.K. Ideally though you would have a soldier,genji, or possibly even a hog. Also consider what map you are on. Is there adequate cover/highground? 

When looking at mercy see if you have a pharah. If you do then take the mercy. That's about it. There are certain situations where I would swap to mercy but rarely I will start on her. Mid game if you are losing and considering swapping to mercy look at why. Are you on Ana/Zen and getting murdered by flankers? Are you on Zen/Lucio and the team isn't getting enough heals? Are you in a stalling situation and the other support already took lucio?

Zenyatta is the support I have the least experience on so I may be slightly off base here but I pick Zenyatta when we have a flanker on our side. When there is a pharmercy in the game (doesn't matter the side). When the damage output on your side isn't enough. When the opposition has a Zarya but no Ana or tracer. When you have a main healer for your tanks. And when your composition looks like dive.

Lucio is a generally good pick in most situations. He is practically a must pick on KOTH maps though due to the fact that you get an advantage if the other side doesn't have a lucio in the opening fight. There are countless times where I pick Lucio just to speed to point for first fight to then swap to another support after first fight.

Sombra is good on defence on maps with a lot of relevant health packs. Like fights happen near the health packs frequently. Several koth maps have this as well as most 2 cp maps.

 There is more to it than that but that's all I can really say right now. This game has massive complexity and there are some maps where a torb/symmetra is the right pick based off of your composition. However that is just something you get a feel for. Also if you have questions don't hesitate to ask.

  
I've always had pretty good luck with Mercy and Lucio together, especially with a Pharah on the team. Lucio takes some of the healing pressure off of Mercy, allowing her to focus on buffing and healing Pharah (Who will most of the time be out of range of the healing aura) or whoever and can help her get back to the fight quickly, but if things start going really south Mercy can pop around and heal up those who need a lot of healing. When I'm solo healing I generally start out as Mercy unless they turn out to have no idea how Mercy works. Generally I see Zenyatta go best on maps with a lot of open ground so that whoever he's healing doesn't go out of line of sight a lot, but others may have different experiences. Zen is also not the best for solo healing since he's slow, but due to his damage output he's a good co-healer. I've not used Ana much so I can't say anything about her except that it's hilarious to me when an Ana nanoboosts a Pharah, and also startlingly effective if the Pharah has rocket barrage ready.
2900s Support main here! I play Mercy and Ana, with some Zen when needed (but I'm much worse at him comparatively).

What I've learned is this...

Mercy and Ana can solo heal, so if you have to go to them. 

Pick Mercy over Ana if the enemy team has wombo-combos they have to rely on (this will soon be changed, since Rez won't negate this). Pick Mercy if they have coordinated flanks and your team is good at keeping high ground or staying in positions that optimize your GA(Pharah gives you great escape routes as Mercy). Mercy is also better if your team is running a lot of smaller targets and you need a more consistent heal.

I'll pick Ana if we have something with good synergy with Nano, especially a Genji. This will team wipe people and get a point a lot of times. I'll also pick her if we have more than 2 tanks or there is a need for burst healing (they have a Reaper, constantly high charged Zarya, good focus on tanks). Also, Anti-healing can be game swaying at times. If I notice that I have a lot of opportunities to land 2+ people nades, I'll try to switch to Ana (Mercy is my go-to for last season).

Also, I feel like the maps really depend on who I pick. I hate Ana on king of the hill (aka capture point) maps. Mercy isn't much better, but she has a lot more ability to survive with good positioning and GA movements.

I'll swap to Zen (not often) if there are meaty targets that need to be taken down with Discord or targets constantly get away with low HP. Also, if I find my DPS are a bit lacking, I try to contribute more (Lucio + Zen as double support can do a decent amount of additional damage with focus on the discorded target). Also he helps people focus in on one target, if your team is lacking coordination (a great plus that discord has :) ).

I generally stay away from Lucio because he isn't fun. I only remember swapping to him once and it was because a Winston kept killing me, and Lucio gave me much more of an edge against him.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3L0VUPm5WZw
Lucio is useful in almost every game and combo

Zen is useful against Pharamercy and triple tank

Ana is useful if your team is running deathball or triple tank

Mercy is useful on escort/hybrid maps where she doesn't have to be in the middle of team fights like KOTH

Zen + Lucio if you're diving or running solo tank
Lots of good advice in this thread. 

I play on console where Ana is a little lackluster. There's some good Ana mains but they're usually Ana mains rather than flex or support mains. So leaving her out:

-mercy if solo healing

-1st point defense im a huge fan of the mercy symm combo. 69% win percentage (over 7-8 hours) on symm this season playing her mostly on D and politely asking for a mercy as the only healer. Slightly lower win percentage (65%ish) last season doing the same thing. Teams really seem to struggle to deal with so many of their picks being erased by Rez and tele. Also if mercy dies with Rez, she has a second chance, and sometimes it sets her up for some game changing plays.

-zen is a huge help if you're playing support and the other team has a good pharah or pharah / mercy combo

-zen is great to have if the enemy has a zarya, to counter her ult. He also helps if you come across a bastion, discord, charge while you tuck away, and wreck him

-lucio great for KOTH. Also great for attacking when there's a choke to speed through. I generally avoid him if I expect or see that a team doesn't group up well. Also nice to have boop against a reaper to keep him away from your tanks.


Ana is far and away the best support in the game.  Her ability to burst heal is rivaled only by Transcendence.  She has a unique kit in anti heal and the ability to sleep a target and take them out of a fight.  If you have the mechanical skill to get the most out of her kit and you're running a standard 2-2-2, Ana is the best healing support/utility in the game.  

Lucio is a must pick in almost every single situation.  The only time you can really sub him out is 2CP defense.  One shot abilities don't hold a candle to being able to give your entire team a sizable speed boost when making a push onto point, it's been the most OP ability in the game since S1.

Tank heavy lineup the other team is running?  Zen for the discord.

Mercy if you can't play Ana.

Sym 2CP Defense 1st point.
Lucio = needed in every team

Mercy = if you have pharah

Zen = when diving or against tanks

Ana = when you need alot of healling and have easy targets aka tanks

Sombra = in soloQ just dont.
> Pick Mercy/Ana for solo healing.

Don't pick Ana for solo healing if all targets are small.

> Pick Ana when you already have Lucio. Pick Lucio when you already have Ana.
> 
> 
> 
> Pick Lucio+Zen when you dive.
> 
> 
> 
> Pick Zen+Ana when vs hard flankers.
> 
> 
> 
> Pick Zen vs Pharmercy.

Ana Zen versus Pharmercy is the dream.
 
> Pick Ana when you triple tank.
> 
> 
> 
> Pick Zen/+Mercy when your team is very mobile.
> 
>
> 
> Pick Mercy if you have pharah + someone on high ground.
> 
> 
> 
> I'd say that.
> 
> 
> 
> Edit: Lucio+anyone else on KOTH.

Mercy on KotH is a deathwish.

> Edit2: I forgot my fav! If you have 5 dps - pick Zen.

I would pick Mercy instead.

thank you so much!!!
This is actually pretty close to my mental checklist while picking healers. I tend to avoid going Mercy as I find Ana way more fun and pick her as soon as I see a Rein/Orisa/Dva on the team (and we don't have a Mercy already) but otherwise it's just this list. 

Zen (or Lucio on KOTH) + 5 dps works surprisingly well as long as the dps focus fire, Zen doesn't die and people are good at avoiding getting hit by spam. Though in this kind of matches, Zen does juggle.
> Pick Zen+Ana when vs hard flankers.

Pick Lucio+Ana when vs hard flankers.  Lucio is the only healer in the game that can babysit Ana and peel for her when she's being dove.  Ana will always be target 1 for any flanker with a brain.  Zen can't peel for shit and is literally 2nd course for a legit Genji/Tracer.
I'd say you left Lucio out of a lot of situations that he works in. For example, I'd definitely prefer to be a Lucio than a Zen or an Ana if the other team is flanking. IMO he's also great with triple-tank because your team tends to be grouped up and can benefit from heals+speed a lot. And of course he works well when your team is mobile.
thank you - great advice!
This is a gross oversimplification of solo q. I main lucio and I don't play him roughly a quarter of the time. Sombra is op on certain maps. 
> Don't pick Ana for solo healing if all targets are small.

If you're solo healing for 5 DPS your team has bigger problems than who you pick as support.
Probably. 

I wrote this basing on my expierence and I personally find Zen and Ana more fun to play, which means I have more hours on them and feel more confident playing them. I played duo with good Ana as Zen and it felt really good for both of us. But maybe it's just us. Lucio sounds good, I can see it working as well. 

Maybe when it comes to hard flankers you need to just take your best? Sleep dart won't save you if you miss all of them and rightclicking into deflecting genji (if you're new to this timings) won't do any good either. Then GA is the best option. Or speed boost. 

The only thing I don't actually understand is why mobile team would need Lucio. They're mobile already. I used to think about Lucio more in immobile teams, so they can gain more from his abilities.
I dont care when you play lucio am jusy saying the truth. If you wanted to pick best supports lucio would be one of them in every single situitation.
Picking Mercy over Ana solves a big issue with 5 DPS comps.

Is the new Junkrat busted?
I've been playing the new ffa game mode all morning and I have seen so many Junkrats. I just switched over from console to PC this week so my mechanics are still really bad and my level is only 15. So that may have something to do with all the rats running around. But I've noticed that Junkrat has been winning almost 50 percent of my ffa games. Not only that but the only game I've won so far I was playing Junkrat (and I am by no means an experienced Junkrat player). So is Junkrat so strong just because I'm playing at a low level or is everybody seeing the crazy Australian taking over their games since his buff? Junkrat is really strong against inexperienced players because he can kill you instantly with a mine + left click. Once you learn the range to stay around when fighting him then he'll struggle to win 1v1s against you. Of course in FFA you'll die a lot to him randomly just because the map is so close quarters and respawn locations are random. That's partly why so many people pick him in that mode.
Maybe if half the players are junkrats there's a reason half the time a junkrat wins
I don't think game isn't really balanced around FFA, I'm expecting some heroes will be amazing in FFA, while others are next to useless. That said, I didn't notice it. When I was playing it early I saw a decent mix. I almost won one with Roadhog.
The low levels probably arent handling him well.   Competent hitscans can handle him.  Love the new rats mobility.  It fits his chaotic personality.
I would imagine Junkrat only being a real problem at lower skill tiers (not that that is a bad thing, just an opinion).

Skilled dps can usually dispatch junkrat pretty easily and worse, very skilled Zaryas can farm junk spam to quickly gain ult charge at an alarming rate.
You're right that he dominates the lower levels, you just came to PC so it'll take some time to get the mechanics down but you also need to decide how/if to engage certain enemies. 

There's always a Junkrat or two in the lower/middle rooms of the new FFA map, close quarters and chokes is where they thrive. Stick to the outer edge or the top level that's pretty open and you'll force them out of their strong area or avoid them all together. 

When you get more comfortable with the mechanics you can get more aggressive on how to attack them. I've just reflected close up as Genji and there's almost always 2 grenades and a mine that get bounced back and ended up killing them. 
in deathmatch you can man a single room that works for the character you like to play and just snag people going by

but in a real game there are objectives to worry about and the map has been considered with every angle in mind
Bad Junkrats will double mine. Good Junkrats will use the extra mine for mobility and 1v2s in combination with grenades. 
Junkrat is Ok, don't worry, he just got more mobile.

1. FFA allows him to have it easy because of the map formact / distractions / lots of close corners to hide and combo an instakill of bomb+mine...

2. You're playing with other lower skill players, they take if harder from junkrat, since they don't know how to avoid him.

3. There are a lot of people picking him because he is fun now, so you will see a lot of junkrats winning.

______

If you take your time, you will see that RoadHog have the best potential between all heroes for that mode, he can survive anything and if you end up on a 1v1 with the pig, there is almost no way to win that fight without a great bag of luck.

At my rank (plat~diamond) I see the winners as Hanzo / RoadHog / McCree / Tracer / Junkrat, in that order.
There's only one FFA map, and it's particularly good for Junkrat.  I think a lot of people will be playing him in normal modes after the buff, but I don't think he's particularly good.  If you can aim, just play Soldier -- way more versatile and consistent toolkit.
Ive been loving the TDM but FFA has been a slog of a nightmare, every round eventually devolves to something like 4 Tracers vs 4 Junkrats and its gets really stale really fast when every health kit in the Chateau has a Rat Trap on it.
I main junk (on console) and tonight was my first chance to really sit down with tdm. I was able to pick him every single match, but I made a real effort to get him. He was also picked by the enemy every match. Being a junk main I've learned when I'm playing against one that isn't that good. Before the patch I didn't really see him being picked much. When he was red, he was typically pretty good (people say he's a noob pick, but there is an obvious difference between noob and experienced junkrat).  After the patch, i am definitely seeing people testing him with the new buffs (which I 100% love the buffs!). I expected to see this, and I'm sure it will last a couple weeks. But once the novelty of double mines and faster rip wears off, I think his pick rate will return to normal and mostly skilled players will pick him. Which I'm excited for because I genuinely enjoy going against skilled junkrats. 
I wouldn't worry too much about what goes on in FFA regarding hero pick rate and win rate. The only way FFA will impact competitive or QP is people can spend time working on a new hero in FFA, and even then the situational intelligence needed in comp/QP is radically different.
I go to FFA to train my aim with tracer and such, and I don't worry about the numerous junkrats.
2 mines is insane  -they will nerf the damage from 120 to like 100 if I would predict. 
He's grossly OP in FFA with the tire buff. There are so many walls and ledges that you pretty much can't kill it before it gets you.
I think his ult is a bit too fast but the mine changes are fine
I came in first place as Junkrat. I'm not *that* good at the game (~1300 SR after a decent placement), and I barely play junk. That says a lot about how he performs right now.
Honestly - no.  Junkrat is my backup and I've got a lot of hours on him before the patch. The buffs didn't make him particularly more powerful but it did make him a lot less awkward. He relies on concussion mines for escape and damage, so it was always really challenging to manage the cooldowns. Now since the cooldowns are less of a problem it means there's lots of bad Junkrats who are getting away with making bad plays. 


I think the buff is pretty minor at higher levels and with the way those matches are played, but at lower levels he's probably going to be too strong.
I wouldn't say he's busted, but his trap needs a serious visibility nerf.

I am a very unlucky person, and that translates to Overwatch. Junkrat's trap is without shadow of a doubt the most annoying, unfun, stupid ability in the entire fucking game. If you think Hook or Rocket Punch are bad, I dare you to try and play a mobile hero against Junkrat. Not only doesn't it break from abilities that *should* break it, it litters the floor and catches people out of fucking nowhere with no Junkrat in sight. 

I like playing Doomfist a lot but if the enemy team has a Junkrat my fun goes down by about 90%. You cannot enter a room covered by Junkrat, he's king of fuckboi shacks. But that's all okay, he's supposed to be a counter. But that fucking trap is ridiculous, I'm not talking about out playing people by putting a trap down to protect you. No.

I'm talking about ulting only to find yourself dashing into a trap in the middle of fucking nowhere, pure RNG bullshit. Landing your slam only to get caught on the least likely spots for a fucking trap. And it's not even avoidable, it's practically invisible in such a fast paced game *and* it meshes through the floor. It needs a fucking light.
> Junkrat is really strong against inexperienced players because he can kill you instantly with a mine + left click.

Mine+mine works in small rooms as well and is probably more consistent than mine+left click.
I haven't done qp or competitive since his change but he does exceedingly well in FFA for a lot of the above reasons. You just need to land a few shots and mine to kill anyone and the tight quarters make mines + bombs harder to dodge or more likely to randomly hit someone. I don't think he'll seem as busted in a coordinated environment, although the changes will help him be a more devastating flanker and escape artist.
if the junkrat is smart though he can still be effective even against highly skilled players, see the latest envyus game
I actually dropped down a floor on Chateau Gillaurd on top of a Junkrat. Who had *just* died.

You can imagine how confused I was when I died with no immediate enemy in sight. 
I play Reaper in deathmatch and it's pretty hard vs. a junkrat. My advice? Find your kills elsewhere or avoid and wait for him to be distracted. You have a very low chance of killing him if he's looking at you--especially with the confined quarters of the ffa map.
I played the two deathmatch modes enough to get the free lootbox. I'm never gonna play that joke of a game mode again. There's a reason why initially they said OW won't have deathmatch. Because it works like shit with the current roster of heroes. I mean, Ana's ult is useless in deathmatch for instance.

I think they just added deathmatch because it was easy to do and they wanted to say they added something new to the game.

/r/theydidthemath 
Roadhog is honestly the best example of this. He can is extremely powerful in FFA and, at best, OK in regular play now. 
Yup. There's no point in picking Mercy or Rein in FFA because there's no one to protect. Just like some heroes were useless in 3v3. The arcade is just for fun rather than hving balance and all heroes being viable. 
Pharah crushes him too. 
Heavily agree. I used to main Rat, and I've fallen in love all over again.
Nerf incoming 
Zarya is my biggest problem as junk 
Pretty sure that someone onetricked junkrat to top 500 last season
Pretty much. I really love how junkrat feels now.
It's slower tho.
Junkrat and I killed each other then I respawned ontop of his death grenades and died again.
That might have been me.
Same with tracer idk how to kill him in those tiny hallways. If I get close it's incredibly risky and if I stay farther away and shoot at him I'll probably just get KSed. I just gave up on DM lol it's a big KS fest and it's not going to help me get better at comp.
Complains about Ana in death match 😂😂😂
I find TDM really fun and pretty much every hero seems just as viable. Some even moreso.
Death-match is great, free for all wasn't made for you to pick an support or an anchor tank, of course, who will you protect?

But on Team-Death-match you can make great comps and play with the map very well. TDM can really teach you more for an comp game, since you are usually placed on some point of the game and have to win fights with people appearing from everywhere (The team who wins is usually the one who stayed together and chose an great point in the map to defend instead of running for kills like in the FFA)


Also, the Free For All is great for players who have good mechanics but their game sense is fucked up and are always killed by flankers, it is helping a friend of mine a lot and he was looking more for the flankers when we went for the QP (since rank is off)
After his buffs he should be doing well in regular play. Right?
Yeah though less so on ffa map as you can either avoid her or force her into low clearances. 
There are non-hitscan DPS characters that Pharah doesn't crush?
Good junks really learn how to position and get a very acute game sense of when enemy abilities are on cool down.

DON'T blindly spam as junk, especially if they have a zarya.   Choose your targets wisely.  The new junk can 1v1 zarya quite well if he makes sure here bubble has been used.  Bait it out but save your mines for both a possible kill or a possible reposition/get away.

High ground and peek spots are best for junk. 
Yep, PvP. Actually got two accounts into Season 5 top 500
Also worse than left click+mine because if another person comes in after you killed the first guy it'll be hard to win a 1v1 with just 2 left clicks
That's hilarious but also horrible!
Ps4?

Oh man, it was crazy. The way things happened I didn't even get the sound tells for the bombs. They exploded as I dropped into range and just... died. I had to watch the kill cam to figure out what happened.
Gosh with tracer I think you can only take one. At least with Reaper I can wraith form and have a 50/50 shot at killing him if I confuse him with direction. This wasn't an issue back when junkrat could hurt himself with his own 'nades. Now junkrat players just spray and pray in close quarters--works great for this mode. I'd say avoid the tight corridors, but you can't get 1st place if you do that. I'd say keep the high ground looking down if you can. That area in the basement with the mini health pack is a death trap.

When I play junkrat, tracers are just feed on the FFA map, it is about positioning in the map, the only hero that gets the junkrat on those close corners inside the castle is Hanzo (fucking scatter and sonic arrows man).

But if you are on the open areas and outside, junkrat can't do shit.

It is about picking your fights and bullying the easy ones in order to win
Tracer is pretty good against junkrat, he’s got a big hotbox. You just need to keep your distance and respect him. 

It’s pretty annoying but if you chisel him down from far away you can win. Just know when you need to abandon the fight, don’t get trapped 
That was just an example. All the healers except Lucio have abilities that are simply useless in FFA deathmatch. Zen's harmony orb is useless, Mercy's healing beam and damage boosting beam are useless, Ana's healing shots + ult are useless. 

Also, the map really favors spammy close combat heroes like Junkrat, and having no hero limit makes it so you often have to avoid spam grenade damage from 4+ Junkrats. That's not fun by any means.
He's not doing too bad. He is way more viable than before, at least in my experience so far (was a hog main before the nerf) 
I think he is alright. He can really stay in the fight a lot better now. But I think his high level play will still suffer because he still feeds ult charge and isn't as much of a monster threat as he was.

I think he still needs a reason to not be shot at so he isn't quite as much of a liability. Like have damage he receives charge his ult a little bit. 
We will see. The buffs are a lot more impactful than I originally thought, but they aren't what the players were expecting, and we will need to play differently.
Haha. If I go in the hallways I'm food for junkrat. If I go in the open areas I'm food for soldier/mcree. Tracer just doesn't seem that good on that map. It's fine though because she's great in TDM.
Right in FFA if you chisel him down some reaper will just show up and kill him. 
So you're complaining about supports being hard to use in DEATHMATCH?
You just have to rely on your teammates having more than 2 brain cells and focusing on the character you hook out of position instead of being able to yoink instant kills 
I won my first game yesterday and it was with Tracer.  Was only the 2nd time I played the mode also.  She's not as bad as everyone is saying,  you just have to be very aware of your blink and recall.   I also made it a point to avoid certain characters....Not like you have to kill everyone you see.  Avoid those that give Tracer issues and kill the ones that don't.  
Oh my back I missed ffa 
His problem wasn't with hooking (at least for me) it was that he wasn't dealing out enough damage to justify feeding the enemy and being an easy target for them. Now that hes more mobile he can dish out more damage. You're right though, it also helps a lot to have teammates with more than 2 brain cells :D
His problem is he doesn't contribute much other than his hook. Before people were still wary to get close to you cuz you could one shot them without the hook. And you could break shields much better and get some good alt fire shots. Now Roadhog is very dependant on one ability that has a 8 sec cooldown that may or may not actually get a kill.
I'll try that. 
Yeah but you have to see how bullshit he was prior. Even if you could dodge the hook, that didn't mean you couldn't still get hooked which always felt like bullshit and there was never a way to counter it, all the more frustrating when that hook goesf past several other people and yoinks you insteas. We're talking about a 600 health character that has a guaranteed instant kill with a 40 foot range that only requires body shots. He wasn't a tank, he was an ultra low skill DPS that anyone could play when someone screened "somebody pick a fucking tank" at them. But the hook ability, health or damage wise alone is very powerful and people need to play around ot, thouh g I understand how he could act as a battery before. Though I'm optimistic that his take a breather changes will make him good at tanking 
Nobody ever seems to talk about Roadhog weaknesses whenever they decide to talk about how op he was. If he was as op guarantee Insta win hero he would have had a much higher pick rate and win rate. And btw pretty much ever hero in the game has a way to easily dodge or block a hook or block the follow up shot so it had plenty counters.
That's missing the point though. The point is that when he did hook you it never felt fair, it just ran on bullshit. But he also did nothing to protect his team and yet also needed nothing to support him due to his massive health pool and easy access to self heals. He wasn't a tank, just a extremely easy to play dps
He protected his team by creating a 21 meter threat zone and by hooking people. Also please stop with this pride thing about easy heroes not being allowed to be good. 

Change in colour of ally name
Is anyone else finding it really confusing during a big fight with having ally names in red? I know the healthbars are still white but either I'm finding it hard to adapt or this seems like a strange change to make.

Also, sometimes there seems to be no name at all

http://imgur.com/xEz0LPYMy ally names are always blue (teammates) or green (groupmates), and I've never noticed names missing before. You say this started with the patch earlier this week? Maybe worth submitting a bug report. 
Its a bug in the game that Im also experiencing. 
Happens when you play Deathmatch then go on to play quick play right after. 

There's is no fix i could find from a google search so we'll just have to wait until Blizzard fixes it. 
Where are you from?

Playing from the U.S. here and we don't have colored names, nor any names at all above our character's heads in-game.
>My ally names are always blue (teammates) or green (groupmates),

yeah this used to be the case for me as well. I tried US and Asia servers and the problem still persists for me.

Looks like bug report it is
Also in US, but I have friendly character names in blue, enemy in red.
Maybe they do show for me and I just never noticed it...?

I'll have to check when I get home. Is it possible I turned it off, is there even settings for the names?

Lol. I commented in here to help since nobody else replied to OP and here I am with no clue myself.
in EU and this certainly used to be the case before the latest update.

Xbox - Rank with default control settings
Each season I both start and end between 2100-2400 and I know there's a lot of non-aiming things I can improve on before climbing higher. I use the default 30 horizontal, 15 vertical, dual zone aiming scheme and am at a 50%+ accuracy with all heroes. (My Mcree and Soldier accuracy was around 20% when I first started with same settings)

YouTube videos on the subject of "getting better at overwatch xbox/ps4" are always recommending to get used to switching from Dual Zone to Exponential Ramp, Aim assist off or lowered, aim smoothing 0 depending on other settings, and 50/50 up-to 100/100 sensitivity. I know I could mess around more with different settings, or even up my sensitivity by 5 every few hours, but I want to know if these preferences really make a huge difference for those who have adapted to them?

I'm more curious to know if anyone has reached Diamond or higher by using the default: Dual Zone, 30/15? I get that turning around is slower, and for heroes like Genji, Reinhardt, and Tracer 30/15 just isn't ideal. (I play them at 70/70 but still with Dual Zone) 

To me exponential and linear ramp feel too much like using a mouse with accelerator on it. If every single person in the higher ranks are using it, I guess I'll have to adapt, but I'm hoping that's not the case. One of my friends career high is 2700 with default, but everyone else I'm friends with is much lower. On a side note, my OCDness has been messing with the custom crosshairs obsessively and I'm really liking the variety of options. Head-shots definitely increased. I don't like obsessively changing my sensitivity though, which I've done in the past. When I say obsessively, I mean it's really a problem as I never feel satisfied. 

tl'dr: If you Rank 3000+ with default control settings (30/15 Dual Zone) on Xbox One lemme know :D I want to stop obsessing over sensitivity, possible disadvantages, and just enjoy the game.I'm 3100 and use like 75/65 dual zone. However, I have a T500/GM buddy who uses default settings. I think the most important thing is find a range or zone of comfort and stick with it. You will build muscle memory with any given setting over time. 
I have reached 3955 with 30 x 15 y dual zone 95 smoother full aa

Sens is all based on the person, don't follow what we say just cause our sr is high
Playing on ps4 I got up to about 3100 while plating on default settings, but after I changed my sens and used 0 aim smoothing and linear ramp I play just at 3500 with a wider variety of heros now. 

The aim assist once higher up can really fuck you up more than it helps.
Peak ~3250 this season on Xbox, finished at 3000 due to decay/lack of interest towards the end of this season. I main Soldier, Reaper, and Zenyatta. I use default on all of them. 
Wondering what the smoother actually does and the benefit you found out of lowering it by 5? Also wondering what "Aim ease in" does and if 0 is fine for dual zone. I tried 24 as it was the most used # and my aim was terrible.

But thanks for the replies I was looking for. I've got hundreds of hours of muscle memory on default and so I'd hate to start over. It was really getting to me, knowing I can't 180 fast at all, or play genji, tracer, lucio, or reinhardt well with slower aiming. Everyone sounds hype about the new linear ramp and despite trying various persons configurations I cant get used to my aim speed changing depending on how far from center the stick is. :|
I dont know exact use but smoother down 5 allowed me to turn faster. I play widow a lot so it allowed me to flick those genjis

Usually try to put yourself in spots that don't need it (positioning) when you need to 180 lots you are in the wrong spot

Aim ease is the new thing that i havent even touched yet haha
The higher smoother is the longer it takes to change direction. I play with 100 because in close range fights I tend to flick left and right constantly and the aim smooth keeps my movement small and rly allows me to tap my crosshair into place. However if your turning right then want to turn full throttle left you will do that much much faster at 0 smoothing. Try to flick left and right with 0 smoothing then put it back to 100. Your sens will feel super fast at 0 when it actually hasn't changed. Unlikeaik is a YouTube channel I used to learn this

Ideal console aim settings?
So i never even thought about changing my controller settings and have kept them at default. Now that there are numerous aim settings I am thinking ablut tinkering around a bit to maybe improve my aim. Im typically a low sensitivity kind of guy btw.

Currently I have Aim Assist window and Smoothing at 100 and Aim Ease at 0. My method is dual zone.

I am insterested in switching to the new linear ramping as ive heard good things about it but also what settings do you guys prefer in regards to the aim assist window, smoothing, and a ease settings?

Ive heard a lower aim assist window can be a good thing but it sounds counterproductive to me. tha ks guys for any imputSo I've been fiddling with the new settings today and linear ramp finally feel usable. I use 95 aim smoothing, 80 window size, and 35 ease in. 

30-40 ease in feels good with linear, about 10 feels pretty good with dual zone.
/r/OWconsole also has some good discussion threads about aim and sensitivity settings 
Until I reached my silver border I had played on 6 3 sensitivity.  If you are trying to compare it to other games vertical sensitivity should be about half.  Now, over the past 100 ish levels I've slowly ramped up my sensitivity.  First on heroes like winstons and reaper, and now I'm playing on a 100/60 sensitivity for all heroes.  Being able to spin and headshot a Tracer faster than she turns around is an amazing feeling.  I had read the whole "raise your sens" posts before and always just kinda blew it off.  But I can say for certain now that it really does help once you get used to it. Would recommend
Oh, and 55/55 sens
ive read sinilar settings elsewhere, i will have to try these. i just want to get a little use to these before season 6 starts tonight or ill habe to revert to dual zone default settings

Sombra: A good hero to learn right now?
My hero learning process so far: 
I used to be almost a DVA main in the first half of the past season. I also played some Ana and Tracer to fill the other roles. As I got bored of DVA (because old/current DVA is more or less a DM bot). I started to play Zarya and by the end of the season, I considered me to be a Zarya main. I like the fact that Zarya rewards good tracking similar to Tracer, but with less stressful movement and less squishiness. I also picked up Zen, because of ability to increase your teams damage significantly. He is now my go-to pick for the second healer, but I don't like the fact that he is a glass canon.

Now to my topic:
I was looking to pick up Sombra for quite some time now. I really like her playstyle, she rewards good tracking, she is very good at keeping herself alive and her ult is super strong, especially when your team has ult disadvantage. She also has a surprising heal output on maps, where the megas are easy to reach for your team.

So my thought process was...

Mercy's new kit makes her an even better solo healer than before + there ar many mercy players --> The remaining slot could be filled with Sombra.

We will most likely see mercy in every single game. Her rez is now an ability --> Hacking her will be even more viable.

DVA and Mercy will not be able to counter ultimates as effective as they did before -->This nice can be filled with Sombra.

DVA will not be the healer-bodyguard" she used to be, making my Zen even more difficult to play. --> Sombra could be a possible replacement. She can escape fights much better and can provide healing to mobile allies with the hacked health packs.

Orisa seems like a very strong choice for tanking with her new shield and her increased dps. --> Sombra can help to shut her down, while my ana and Zen will struggle against her. 

Zarya mains will have a good time in Season 6. Less Dva DM and no more Mercys, that hide for the team-rez, will make her grav even stronger. -- > Sombra has always been a good counter to her.

What do you guys think about my conclusion? Cold Sombra be a solid pick with the new changes, or maybe even a must-pick against certain comps? To the Sombra mains out there: How did you learn Sombra and what do you think is the best situation to play her?DO you have fun playing her? Yes? Then she's a good hero to learn!
Season 5 was her best season imo because Dva was everywhere and had the four second Matrix, and hacking her could mean a won fight if your team was on their shit.

She'll be good in every meta though because enemies will always have abilities and disabling them will always be good.

Edit: also she fits into dive or deathball.
Learning Sombra can give you good game sense and understand how the game works. Very good for aiming when it comes to tracking and spread control. She's also very accepted in comp after almost a YEAR. In the upcoming Orisa/Rein meta she won't be terrible either. Dive comp suited her better, but the most likely upcoming Season 6 meta will serve her well as well. 
Sombra has been a good hero to learn since release
Sombra is one of those characters everyone should pick up. She the best ult combo potential in the game, and her effectiveness is greatly increased by a team that knows how to play with a Sombra. 
Sombra is going to be very strong soon if you can play her. With ult comps about to get a major buff with the redesigns of Mercy and D.Va, Sombra is going to be a great initiator.
sombra might still  be ok on some 2cp maps but i doubt we will see her with new dva on some koth maps
Ok i will main her this season and i hope i don't get reported much 
In S5 I had 2 games with a good working Sombra on my team. One game I lost because our Sombra got picked off, making the strategy collapse (First point R66 with attackers only had to push past the corner). But until then it worked great. The second time was on Hollywood first point, where our Sombra worked great with my rein and me on zarya. We got multiple team kills with emp and full hold with ease, it was an absolute stomp.

What I learned from those games is that more players on ladder should learn how to play with a sombra/synergize with her, like they already do with mercy or zarya.
I think Doomfist play will also pick up (based on those Meta reports) and she'll be great against him. 
Tell that to my teammates who flame me after locking in Sombra.
I think lijang control center and nepal shrine are good sombra maps. It allways depends on the mega healthpack locations. 
They (Blizzard) should really ignore reports in regards to "Hey, this guy is playing a character I do not like" so long as you're not throwing. Not sure if there would be any proof provided that you're not throwing and trying your damnedest at working hard with Sombra.

Mostly I get "Can you switch Sombra, you're throwing! QQ".
Yup. Everyone still thinks she's bad though. If people would be more open minded and work with the pick instead of against it, there would be a lot more fun and a lot more won games and this self-fulfilling prophecy would die.

(Granted, there are still some bad Sombras, Widows, Hanzos, etc. But there are also bad Mercys, Soldiers, Dvas, etc. so who cares.)
this! Got 80h on her and ppl still call me a thrower for locking her in, not even the golden Uzi does help..... 

At least my mates love to play besides a Sombra =)
Voice chat or text chat? If voice, you can selectively mute the offending player. Text chat, I've rad somewhere you can disable it.

I personally perfer selectively muting a player since I still want to call out important hacks, identify who has their ult ready, and count down of my deployment of an EMP.
> nepal shrine 

too open imo, healthpack too far
I never throw any game, even if the game was already lost, even if i take a hero i don't play with a lot, i try my best, i will main sombra and i will try my best with her 
They do in both, also I'm constantly scapegoated because I'm Sombra. Did we lose the game? yes? It was all Sombras fault and we would have won if he didn't pick Sombra or switched off. Even on 2CP maps where I get great EMPs off and they sometimes follow up well, I'll still be blamed. =/ 


To be honest, I end up leaving voice chat more often than not because of the toxicity I receive simply because I love a hero that is looked down upon. It's kind of insane. I can't imagine what Hanzo+Widow mains go through. 
there are three big healthpacks just a few seconds from the point bru! 
She's very good. And even if you don't have the best mechanical skills you can still win a lot of 1vs1 fights by being more SoB than the opponent. After all... where's the fun in playing fair?
My mechanical skill with her is good, i play tracer a lot and somehow i feel sombra is close to playing tracer, but a lot of the time i forget to place my translocater
Don't forget to reload while in invis mode!
You can do that? Like tracer with her blinks? 
Reloading doesn't cancel invisibility, like shooting does, so always remember to reload before sneaking on someone!

I've only played a little bit of comp before and I want to play it a lot more in season 6. Any tips for someone that's primarily used to quick play but moving into comp?
My current SR (as of the end of season 5) is somewhere between 2100-2200. I've hit platinum for a short period back in season 3 I believe. Anyway, I primarily play Zenyatta, Junkrat, and D. Va (in that order). I'm not sure how the new D. Va changes are going to affect me yet, but that might factor in to how much I play her. I'm just looking for some tips that will help me get accustomed to competitive gameplay. I have 56 hrs played total but a majority of that is QP or arcade, and I finally feel the urge to try to climb in comp. Also, I play on PS4 if that matters in this discussion.The biggest thing I can say is to not get discouraged by assholes (especially if you tend to stick with supports, people can be real dicks). Continuing to play despite losses will not only help you learn from your mistakes, but it's also part of the game. Just use shitty games as a chance to work on what went wrong, and how you can prevent that in your next game.


Often times there is little to no communication in QP and arcade, so make sure you work on communication with your teammates, as that is a large part of playing as a cohesive team. 
Biggest thing is don't attack the enemy team alone. It's far better to wait for your teammates and do nothing than to die 1v6
There will be matches that you will crush everybody on the enemy team, winning with an perfect score. But there will be the same amount of matches where the opposite occurs. Be smart and try to take the best from this games, even if the lose is certain you should use that time in order to achieve improvement for the next ones.

Never forfeit, keep playing and your rank will go up with time. Is not about playing 10 games in a week, but playing 3~10 games every single day if possible
In comp you play to win, you know what heroes you can play well and what you can't. Find the balance between helping the team and making a stupid pick. If the team needs a second healer and they want Ana but you can't play Ana, go zen if you can play zen. Your much better off being someone comfortable then someone you can't play, even if it's technically better in 99% of the situations. Just remember, at the end of the day it's better to have a happy team and you on something your not the best with then a pissed off team and you comfy. Best example I give is hanzo mains, they could kill 3 every fight but their team will play like shit cause they're tilted all game. Woulda been better to go soldier or something so your teammates play at least decently. Tilting loses more games then mechanical skill or lack therof does. 
Focus on few things to improve and analyze your game play soon after a game is mentioned by some to give more value than just playing competitively but not reviewing in terms of improvement for time spent. Although its probably more fun to just play :P. 
Grouping up and backing out if your team gets wiped is important, and voice communication! If you don't have a mic at least make an effort to communicate with the team
Ignore your SR and instead focus on what you can improve. Believe me there will ALWAYS be something. (not that sr rank either)

Pretend it's quick play but instead you're trying to always improve and doing your part to win the game. That doesn't mean playing what people tell you to play either. 
hi I hit 4288 this season and can offer tips on getting accustomed to competitive game play.

First decide right now what kind of role you want to excel in, and make it your main goal to keep improving with the role that you pick.

So for example for me , I started out only playing hit scan heroes (tracer on attack, and McCree/76 on defense). 

Now set what you need to improve in order to get to the ranking that you want, you need to pinpoint the small things that you need to improve on. 

For me I still miss a shot every now and then, so before playing comp I just train on bots and focus on not missing any shots, and just play consciously and not let your subconscious take over.

I know my subconscious is shit it's gotten me to gm , but if I don't do anything at all, I'm never going to reach my next goal. So you need to know what skills you lack and improve on those. 

Some skills I see a lot of my students lack in

Choosing the wrong fights
Not keeping track of enemy ults
Not keeping track of your opponent's movements when you can't see them.

tl;dr find few things that you can work and improve on, give yourself a small list of heroes to ONLY play in comp and work on those.
Take breaks, and if you start tilting or find yourself on a losing streak, back out for awhile.
Best advice I can give: Don't die. Dying a lot means feeding. Feeding means enemies get ez ult charge. Enemies with ez ult charge means you're going to lose that point when they drop them all at once.
At first play who you like until you're not winning anymore. Then have someone review your VOD and continue from there 
All I can say is use voice comms and practise a few heros before going into comp. let's say you play genji, soldier,mercy and zarya. I would say play a game or 2 of each hero so you don't go in and do terrible.
Define your Goals. No do not set a SR to climb to.

Set up rules like 

"I will play my favourite chars and have fun."

or 

"I will adept to the Team in my choice."

or

"I want to improve on tanks and dps."

If you stick to those rules the SR will Adept and you will have a good time there. Just be aware of your rule and that it might conflict with climbing or be benifitial for it.

But if you follow such a rule noone can ever blame you for not doing your stuff, because you will be at the mmr you can pull of your weight. 


If you Switch from "power-climb on your best onetrick" to "I feel like Pharah today." you will screw up games.
Try not to tilt when things go sour or blame teammates. If teammates or toxic just mute and move on.
I personally try to look at my losses and think about what I could have done to win. (Positioning, target priority, ult usage) Everyone loves a steamrolling win, but finding the common mistakes in your losses are what really help you improve and take the next step.
Honestly, this may not be a popular opinion, but I'd stick to QP a bit longer and really diversify your hero pool.  Not necessarily for mastery but to understand what every character has as a strength and weakness.  You may think 56 hours is enough time to really master the game, it isn't.  I've got 5 times that on Tracer alone across my accounts, I play at a Master's level and I am still learning things about just her.  If you are placing low gold my guess is that you do not have the mechanical skill to make up for lack of game knowledge.  Understanding the counter game is going to give you a massive advantage at the lower SR levels as most people will not swap regardless of how hard their character is being countered and rendered ineffective.  It gives you an idea of the struggles your teammates are going through on their hero in any given match and puts you in a better position to assist them.  If you truly want to climb then gaining at least a baseline understanding of each hero is absolutely necessary.  I placed/finished Season 1 58.  Season 2 I placed 2780.  I was really frustrated because halfway through the season I wasn't moving.  I was only playing Soldier 76 and Zenyatta.  I'd win and lose and win and lose.  My mechanical skill got me to where I was and it wasn't until I took the time screwing around in QP, getting a few hours experience on each hero and really understanding them that I started to climb.  Finished Season 2 just north of 3000 and have played the majority of every season since in Masters.
Learn more heroes. If you want to play dps - be ready to switch to hitscan. If you want to play tank - be ready to play smth else, because D.va is going to be reworked soon. Also D.va is brusier, not solo tank. If you want to play healer - be ready to play hero that can actually solo heal. I'd say your hero choices are weak now, Soldier-Winston-Mercy (Ana/Lucio) look much stronger. I have no idea what's going on ps4, but on pc I wouldn't recommend to jump into comp with such hero pool. 

And be ready to lose some SR. Overconfidence is a flimsy shield.
Teamwork helps make the dream work
Stop playing quick play, and if you are playing an off-meta hero get out of team chat. 
To add onto this don't be afraid to use mute/block function. First hint of toxicity (text or voice) is a mute. Even if they're actually making callouts (pro tip: they pretty much never do), even if they're useful (which is even more rare from these guys most of them are just "HEAL ME NOW"), it's totally not worth playing worse from the tilt and losing the fun of the game. 
I refuse to let bullies dictate what I play. If I've put hundreds of hours into off meta heroes and am good at them and enjoy the game most that way, I'm not going to play something else just because some kid is throwing a tantrum over it. It's on him to change.
I'd rather play to have fun and improve, don't be so focused on that number. Of course, don't throw. 
I think comms are mostly pointless at this level on console if solo queuing and you probably net gain from staying out of them altogether - you'll miss the rare occasions where you have someone making useful callouts, but you'll also avoid all toxicity completely.
This is super important. People are giving general tips but this is one someone coming from quick play wouldn't know. If you lose 8 games in a row in quickplay you can keep on playing no problem. You lose 8 games in a row in comp you're 200 SR down and probably angry as hell. Take a break. Play again tomorrow. The worst thing you can ever do is say "I'll play until I win 1 game"
I didn't mean to make it seem like I only play 3 heroes in my original post. Those are the ones I'm most experienced with, but I can hold my own with Soldier, Reaper, and McCree (on a good day), and I can play some Ana as well. I do think I need to diversify with tanks. I used to play roadhog and D. Va, but I really need to learn how to play Zarya and winston because at the moment, I have no clue. But I feel like I have decent game sense, and a good idea of *what* to do, it's just very hard to do that in a disjointed game in quick play. I still want to use QP to learn heroes, but I feel like at this point, the best way for me to improve my gameplay is to play more competitive, where teams actually are taken seriously. Many people have commented on this post telling me not to worry about my SR, and I'm not going to. If I'm stuck in gold for a few seasons, or if I drop, I'm fine with that. I think Comp is the best way for me to actually improve my game sense, though.
I agree !! I feel like it's important for every tank player to know  Dva, Rein,and Winston to a basic extent. Especially if you're going to solo que.
Why do you suggest not playing quick play?
Stay in team chat so when you dominate you can hear the confusion on the teams voices.
I don't think that I've ever really heard intelligent call outs from someone who is toxic. They just spam the i need healing button and scream unintelligent things into their mic, so I second this. Mute is a power function that won't let the trolls have power over you 
Funny, I always feel like the off meta dps who refuse to switch are the bullies... 
I disagree. Toxicity still happens, you just don't know about it. I've been in games where I turn off all comms and chat... we go 2 and 0, and then the other team comes back from behind and wins. Why did that happen? Toxicity still affects you. 
Although that is true you can at least try to make an effort
Voice comms are important if someone is toxic mute them. But keep making call-outs is there a tracer somewhere in the back, did you see tele but get messed up by sym and you need help to get it? Voice comms are key.
> the best way for me to improve my gameplay is to play more competitive, where teams actually are taken seriously.

Honestly, you do what you feel is best for you, but if you are expecting a more serious environment in competitive at low gold SR you're going to be in for a rough ride.  I'm not saying that there aren't good players in gold, I'm not saying that gold is an inherently bad rank.  What I'm saying is the level of tomfuckery going on in that rank is on par with quick play.  You are going to have to carry yourself out if you intend to solo queue and there are two ways to do that.  Have vastly superior mechanical skill, which probably is not the case as players with that level of mechanical skill usually place and stall out high plat/low diamond, or you're going to have to really understand what the win condition is and how you can achieve it with little to no help/coordination from your team.  This is going to require swapping heroes on the fly to counter or pick something up that the other team cannot counter.  This isn't going to be learned throwing games in comp learning new heroes.
I always play one match of quick play before I play comp. Because it helps warm me up and gets my tracking/aiming setup. Other than that try not to think of the SR so much. It will drop and it will rise. If you focus too much on your SR it's way too easy to get tilted. Try and focus instead on what you did right in the match it'll give you a more positive attitude going into your next game. If you do start getting tilted go back to quick play or exit the game for a bit and cool down.
Unless you're just practicing aim, there's really nothing to be gained from it, and a lot to be lost. It leads to laziness, bad habits, and incorrect gamesense. If you really want to get good at comp., only play comp.
I switch when it's not working. The people who don't, it's only half their fault. Generally speaking it's the product of being bullied; they don't just refuse to switch unprovoked. You have to understand they are bullied nearly every game for just playing the way they want to play, so sticking it to the bullies in the only way they really can is tempting.
I understand completely. I'm not foreign to competitive, I'm just not used to playing that primarily. I would frequently play 1-2 comp matches and then spend 3 times that in quick play. So I get that teamwork doesn't magically appear in gold, but it is sure as hell a lot more common. At the very least, I've frequently had teams with good composition and little teamwork/communication, which is already an improvement from QP. And I definitely plan to learn new heroes in QP, and probably Deathmatch now that it's available. I've been trying to practice McCree a lot more recently because my aim is really good occasionally, but it's not that often. 

I plan on still playing a combination of both, this is just going to be the first season that I really try to focus on competitive, though.
Mostly in agreement here.

I will usually *politely* ask the attack Torb or Hanzo/Widow to switch if I'm uncomfortable with our team comp, but if they refuse I won't press it.

If they do well, I'm also sure to let them know they're appreciated.   If they do poorly and switch, same.  It's only frustrating when they do poorly and refuse to switch. (Though even then, I don't bother being salty.  It's a waste of time, and just makes everything even more miserable.)
I understand where you're coming from because I've seen plenty of toxicity aimed at widow mains or w/e before the game even starts, and I don't do that or condone that. But at what point does playing the way they want to play start to ruin the game for the other people who happened to be matched up with them? I always give people a chance but if it's clearly not working and I respectfully suggest that one of our four dps switch and I get "I'd rather lose" it just sucks. I choose to play whatever the team needs because it's a team game, even though I have the most fun playing dps. 

And I don't understand what you mean by saying "it's only half their fault." If I suggest someone to switch and they start acting toxic to me, saying "I have gold damage faggot" or whatever, that's not really their fault because they've been conditioned by all the past toxicity? Or what?


At least you're committed to improving and helping your team.  Just takes grinding man, you'll get there if you stick with it and are truly willing to put in what it takes to get better!
Team comp is a separate thing. Sometimes it's genuinely a bad call, independent of their skill. I will definitely switch in those instances (on my own).

And yeah, don't press it because it just causes more problems than it solves, if it solves any. Most players are incapable of letting it go, which is very troublesome.

You're one of the good ones.
Thanks mate, and same.  

I figure it's not worth getting angry over.  Bad players/decisions happen, I'm not innocent of those myself, and I don't really have control over anyone but myself.

No more invulnerability for new mercy
The new mercy patch is great! It fits perfectly my playstyle (small fast reses, aggresive playstlye, no hiding).

The only thing I will miss is her invulnerability. I love it, its the best change mercy ever got. I love to use it to survive Ults, block a HighNoon, bait a Riptire explosion and so on. 

What you guys think about this topic? The reason they gave her immunity is because she'd rez a few people but end up incredibly vulnerable in the next 2.25 seconds where the revival targets are completing the animation and unable to do anything, leaving Mercy on her own as a sitting duck

With Mercy only being able to bring back one target, the rest of your team is, theoretically, going to be around and able to help/provide support
I think that while taking away the invulnerability makes it slightly more risky, since Mercy won't be doing huge team rezzes anymore there will be teammates around to cover for her (hopefully) while she rezzes someone. So most times she won't be all alone while rezzing, compared to the 5-man rez. Even though I enjoyed timing the rez to escape ults, Mercy's new ult will allow her to escape some of them (especially Genji).

Looking forward to the changes, since I share a similar playstyle to yours and hate being told to hide in a corner with rez when I could be actually contributing to a teamfight :)
I'm glad they are removing the "Oh Shit!" button away from the person that can fly away every second and regen health after a second of taking no damage.
I will miss the ability to shake off getting stuck by a pulse bomb by rezzing for sure. With the number of solo rezzes she will perform over the course of a match it would simply make her too OP to leave invulnerability on.
I don't think I'll miss it, it was abused too often to negate damage instead of to rez people. Hell even I used it the other day to negate the last few seconds of a Genji ult.
I think giving her invulnerability was the dumbest decision ever. its already hard to kill her while she rezzes now you give her god mode? Finally the new mercy is actually balanced.
You should now be relying on your D.va to block whatever you were using invulnerability for.  Oh wait, they nerf'd D.va's ability to provide that too.

I guess just play DPS like everyone else.  6 DPS is the new meta.  Also Zarya is pretty good.
The last thing she needs is another buff lol
I think it's a good thing she doesn't have the invulnerability anymore. It's original purpose was to ensure she wasn't able to be easily killed when she pulls off a 5-man rez and is technically alone for a few seconds afterwards (something I didn't agree with in the first place, but that's beside the point), but now that she only rezzes one at a time, she should always have some backup with her.

Another reason is that she already has heaps of survivability in her small hitbox, flying ability and her health regen.
I did like the idea of strategically rezzing to get invulnerability long enough to heal people and prevent them from dying.

That's gone now.

Tangent: If they are going to reduce her rez-range, I really hope they buff the duration someone can be rezzed when you pass through that range. It's really frustrating to be in range half a second and then out of range the next half second and be dancing around trying to find where the range is while people are shooting at you and the respawn timer is counting down. If they would just let the rez be possible for maybe 1-1.5s after you leave the range that might be enough.
When did mercy have invulnerability?
Honestly, she will be so broken in 3s, she already is hard to deal with when facing decent pharmacy, but now it will be just fucked up if every mercy comp...
I hated the invulnerability.  It felt really cheap when you were you were on the other side of it.  

In most of the nerf Mercy threads, the common thing that usually came out is that she didn't feel as bad without the invulnerability.   It's literally one of the only things that changed about her and the Mercy complaints didn't hit a high tempo until after that patch.

And it's pretty much for the reason you are stating that she would often use that invulnerability to stay alive.  It just feels wrong when you are at close range pummeling her and then...invulnerable.

So, IMO, the invulnerability is actually the unintended reason for the re-work.  It's an example of Blizzard balancing at it's finest.   Introduce a new change that makes a hero unfun to play against and then completely re-work that hero because people disliked the change you made. 
She should never have gotten that. 

The price to bring a team back should be that risky.
What they could do with valkyrie is to make it that she can fly and she's invulnerable. Maybe take away her pistol while she's using it.
Not only that, but now it would be exploitable by greedy Mercy players who instead treat their res as an invuln ability every 30 seconds. They might intentionally let their team mates die, just so they can tactically res them to sustain themselves. Alternatively they might choose NOT to res team-mates such that they can keep the res cooldown for when they are in danger and need the invuln.

I think your reason is the reason they added the invul, but above is why they've since removed it.
That never made sense to me.

Rezzing 5 people with a sacrifice of 1 seems like a perfectly fair trade. If you usedan your rez with 1-4 people alive you still have the ability to be protected. As the reward went up (number of people revived) the risk also went up (you're more likey to die)

To me that seemed absolutely fair.
dont matter when mercy teamed with a orissa and ana is op then they all ult and she literally team kills solo.

mercy is fucking op with her new alt in the scary hands.
Doesn't she also regen *during* that invulnerability, on top of that?
Yeah just yesterday I hid because my team was dying around me, Genji starting to ult, 1 dead, 2 dead, 3 dead, 4 - tracer found me, stuck me with a pulse bomb and then I rezzed, dodged the pulse bomb, and it was the best thing I ever did in my entire life.
Also noteworthy, regarding DVa is that when you get rezzed, the invulnerability didn't last long enough to call your mech, so it was pretty common to die again instantly.
LOL RIGHT??

I feel like I have to literally be on top of the person's soul, standing on my head and sacrificing a goat in order to be in the range to rez someone. Even after GA to the corpse and being right on top of it, it won't rez the person unless you are LITERALLY staring into their soul.
You can always just dash to the corpse.
She currently still has it on live. It was introduced several months ago. When she rezzes she is invulnerable for a few seconds, until the PTR changes hit
she still have, but not for long anymore. 
To be fair this was back in the day when Anna was queen. Not many really saw Mercy as an option other than your girlfriends hero. 
It sounds balanced on paper, but in game, it was just one more thing among many that made Mercy a less desirable healer than other healers.  An ult that screws you over is rarely desirable.

Think Pharah's ult, which is capable of doing so much damage in theory, but in practice she's an easy kill most of the times she could use it.  It sounds like a balanced risk/reward, but compared to most others, it's pretty poor. 

Noob!Silver's opinion, for what that's worth.
It's still being tested, dude.
Except they nerfed the crap out of her gun and got rid of the damage boost you got when she ults. Now her gun in valkaryie does the same amount of damage as if she weren't in it, and there isn't unlimited bullets anymore. 
Idk about that but her new ult doesn't stop healing her
Yeah I think the timer responsible for starting heal since last damage doesnt pause during immunity. 
I believe she can shoot too
Well done :)
Hmm, you are probably right. With the Mercy changes, getting in the right position to rez x4 and stepping to the left and seeing x3 isn't a problem anymore. Since you can only rez 1, you just fly to that one. 

Makes sense.
There is unlimited bullets, it's the only thing that didn't get rolled back
Oh for some reasons I thought they got rid of that too. I don't know I guess to me at least it seems kind of silly to keep unlimited ammo and nerf her damage output. I get that they want people to focus on healing and damage boosting, and not just whip out their gun every time they ult, but I don't think completely taking away her damage boost to her gun while she ults is the answer. 

Can a bronze player place gold during the new placements?
I've been wondering if I improve dramatically from last season, how far will placements allow me to jump.[deleted]
No. You will start from where you finished. It's not a clean slate.
- If you were in Bronze and are now playing at Gold skill level (or higher), you'll be able to climb out of Bronze.
- If you were in Bronze and are now playing at Silver skill level, you will likely not get out because your improved play will not be able to overcome the throwers, leavers, trolls, bad DPS, bad tanks and bad heals in Bronze.
- Bronze is a prison.

I think Placements now are pretty much normal comp games in the SR-range of your past season, with the exception that you don't see your SR gain/decrease for 10 games.
Unfortunately, I doubt it, the placements will put you close to your Season Ranking, but if you have improved as much as you've said, you'll climb.
Placements shift you to your MMR, so if the game thinks you play like a gold by the end of them you'll likely place gold. Don't count on it, though; "improved dramatically" might just be from your perspective, and if you're really gold you'd stomp every bronze match until you got there anyway.
I have been wondering about this aswell. I was placed in Bronze, Started playing during anniversary event no prior fps experience, extra xp coz of the event got me to lvl 25 quickly and when I checked what I should do in comp I heared flex to make a good comp so that's what I did in my placements lol.

From then I have found my main and carried myself out of bronze, finished season at 1776 sr. My main is Winston and oversumo stats shows me as platinum, I don't expect to be placed in platinum but hoping for at least gold. XD
Considering I managed to go from gold to bronze in placements (Don't ask how), I'll say it'll let you do the opposite. But honestly the whole comp system needs a rework, as I jumped from console to pc and I'm now plat? It seems super broken.
I hope I wont be put back in Bronze. It really was hard to climb out of.
This season is giving more accurate placements but that'd be a very dramatic jump. I placed about 200 up from where I finished last season and that's the biggest difference I heard of. 
Mh this could be interesting then. I was 67 or sth in season one and since then only did placementmatches if at all. Thus every season I dropped about 400 mmr. I definitly will do my Placements this time to check this.
Didn't Jeff mention that placements would be more accurate next season? So instead of dropping you a few hundred SR, it would place you closer to your actual skill level? Not sure if that means it'll just use your old SR or go based off of MMR calculations, but like you said if OP is at a gold level they should still be able to climb easily
Very close to your last sr is rubbish for me. I played diamond ins s4 and was placed at 2,2k the next season.
Not really true. I climbed out of bronze into plat, and now playing on my brother's bronze account i have an 80% win percentage. Bronze is honestly pretty easy to climb out of once you've figured out how the game works. The games are a bit random because of all the weird comps and junkrat in every game, but you can take advantage of that to win pretty easily.
I feel the same way sadly. It's almost too difficult to win reliably with such an unreliable group of players on your team. Unless you're reliably able to win 3v6 climbing is really difficult. 

I think a second account would prove this but all my skins are on this main one.
> Bronze is a prison.

I thought that when I was Bronze. Now I find it trivial to climb out and often do so on my second account. (Basically I play a new hero and tank my SR and then get better and trivially get back to gold again.)

There's tons of information on how to get out of Bronze. Apply it and you will climb too.
> with the exception that you don't see your SR gain/decrease for 10 games.

My least favorite part about placements, tbh
you'll probably place around where you finished last season as long as you perform well
Take oversumo with a grain of salt. if it shows platinum it doesnt mean you play that hero like a platinum Player.
For example, i mainly get master/grandmaster with my hanzo on oversumo, which means i am top 1% of the players AT MY SR that have more than 100 compgames on hanzo.
So you getting platinum means, compared to all othe other seople that Play Winston on your sr you are in the top 40% if it shows u as platinum
[deleted]
[deleted]
I don't think that's his point tho. They've changed the behavior for season 6, but in the past they were intentionally placing you lower than they believed you to be rated, since there was no demotion system and they wanted you to feel like you were advancing. 

This created an effect where if you only did placements every season your rating would slowly drop - not because the general skill level had improved, but simply because of the mechanics of the system. This happened to me where I played season 1 at a reasonably high rating, but then didn't play until season 4 where I only did placements - getting placed into high gold. But because I had only done placements in season 4, going 4-6 in my season 5 placements got me placed all the way down in high silver. 

It wasn't a big deal - as you said, if you're truly well above the SR you were placed in you will climb very quickly. I made it to Plat in 2 nights with a pretty high winrate, but it was still annoying to get placed in a rating that you know is pretty far below where you're at.

With the new system it seems like folks will get placed much closer to their true rating, so hopefully it will be easier to focus on climbing rather than re-attaining your previous levels. 
I dropped to 2,8k at the very end but still I lost over 500sr.
Only end of season SR matters, not peak. 
Still over 500sr

Alternatives to Dive (Comp strategies) ?
I understand that dive comp is based on using highly mobile heroes to "dive" the back line, make a pick on a support/squishy, and then use the numbers advantage to try to roll the enemy team (requires good coordination and uses heroes like Genji, Tracer, Lucio, Zen, D.Va, and Winston). What are alternatives to this, especially in lower ranks? I hear of a deathball comp (seems to be Rein based and using the shield to just have DPS stand behind him and deal out damage as much as possible), is that the only other really organized comp going around? What are others?all those comps rely on the map, maps like kings row are great zarya + rein maps so on those maps, that are rather flat those heroes are good.

zarya + rein + ana + lucio + soldier + genji/tracer/df

then you got the somnbra comp on maps like route, anubis etc. where you can run solo heal ana or lucio + zen so for example

winston + dva + zen + lucio + sombra + soldier

lastly you got triple dps which is dive too kinda

winston + genji + tracer + solider + zen + lucio
Those comps are what the pro scene uses to get the maximum advantage out of the current meta. 
For example, Deathball is an immobile comp based on the team staying close together. 
The south korean world cup team used a zarya+rein+junk+reaper+ana+lucio to counter the enemies dive comp, because they stood close together making it hard for dive to jump and isolate a target without getting punished by higjh burst damage. 

But again those are well-designed strats used by pro teams. On ladder you usually don't have a coordinated team comp, where all of the six slots and all of the three roles are filled with a specific set of characters. But players often follow some sort of synergy. E. g. when I have a rein on my team I usually go Zarya, because I know they make a good tank combo. Same with pharah+mercy, winston+genji and orisa+torb. 
Up to diamond, or even masters, you can probably play your best 2-2-2 comp. Being flexible (and playing your comfort hero) is more important than playing the professional comp because their coordination, game plan, and skill is much greater than what the average player is used to or even GM/top500 players.

But to answer your question, Reinhardt paired with D.Va, Zarya, and sometimes even Orisa is okay. You can throw in a Roadhog into the mix if you or someone is a good Roadhog player, but keep in mind Roadhog does not replace a tank spot. A professional alternative is Winston, Zarya/D.Va, Doomfist, McCree, Zen/Ana, and Lucio. There's also the anti-dive comp like Reinhardt, Zarya, Junkrat, McCree/Soldier, Ana, Lucio. **Again, playing your best 2-2-2 composition with whoever is on your team is good at and being flexible is the key to victory.**
Let's say you're playing king's row. Both sides have pushed it to the end, and the enemy caps the first point in overtime. Now, they need to move the payload as far as they can without getting off it. So, I run:

MT: Winston - This is because he can land on the payload and knock the enemies off.

OT: Zarya - Gravving enemies off of the payload and killing the stragglers will result in a win.

DPS: Pharah - Boop, as well as high damage and AOE for grav.

DPS: Soldier - When running a Pharah you alnost always need a hitscan, and at lower tiers soldier is the way to go.

Support: Lúcio - Every 4 seconds you can boop an enemy off the payload, sometimes multiple. He provides speed boosts to make fights more frequent and decrease the time from when the enemy leaves the payload and the round ends (because the longer overtime is, the shorter time they're allowed to be off the payload)

Support: Ana - Great healing and bionade for grav.

If you're trying to make this work in lower tiers, with little communication, prioritise playing Zarya because this comp is based around her.
I agree with this. I would focus less on team comp and more on what counters the enemy team and what works well together. It's much more beneficial to play something you are good at over something that makes a good comp. If you're playing a tracer when you're better at solider, for example just because tracer is part of the comp you're running, chances are your efforts would be better placed in playing solider. 

Lowering sensitivity
So I lowered my sensitivity from 25cm/360 to 31cm/360, I realised my tracking with Dva and soldier has improved, same goes for Ana, but my Mccree has gotten worse. Isn't Mccree better with lower sensitivity? I can't do 180 turns easily now, that is to be expected but even my flicking and tracking has worsened. Anyone has insights or solutions? Thanks...McCree relies heavily on flick aiming, which is much more muscle memory than tracking aim. Your muscles just simply aren't used to the new sensitivity. Give it time and it will come back!
How long have you played at the new sense? I'm at 400 dpi at 5.5 in game and I'm fine with mccree and soldier. 

I'm guessing you haven't played long enough 
what is the sens and dpi for 25cm/360?
You just gotta get used to it.

I'm a McCree main and before i played on 25.66cm/360 and now play on 38.48cm/360 and it took some time getting used to flicking but now i can do it more consistently.
How long have you stuck with the new sensitivity? 

Your arm muscles are used to 31cm, so it will take time to adjust to 25cm.
1100 DPI and 5 in game sensitivity
That's not that high, don't worry about it
thats still a lot, would go down to 4-5k
I lowered from that to 31cm/360 already 
As a rule of thumb lower it as much as you can without hurting your movement.

I went from 3200x30  to 1800x4.

What surpised me most was that the difference in aiming was minimal it just feels better afterwards and is more Relaxing for my wrist.

edit inb4 yes that high. I used to Play ME3 multiplayer where you were basically dead if you did not turn 3 times per second to check for flankers.


mass effect 3?
Yes. 

How do I successfully counter enemy teams as the Tank Role
I am a tank main mostly because that is the role I get stuck as 90% of the time. I come here to ask  how I can effectively pick so I can counter enemy comps.

If I am the only tank who is it best to pick when and where? if there is a post or sheet answering my question please let me know.

Any reply will be appreciated. thank you. Tank main in diamond / plat on console here.

If you're solo tanking always rein orisa Winston. If you have one of these Zarya or Dva. If enemy has a Zarya, don't go Dva if they enemy has genji tracer etc Winston, if they have reaper no Winston, if they have Bastion dva. If they have Dva go Zarya. 

Idk. It just comes down to what your team comp is, vs theres. Almost never roadhog, but at VERY special times. Rein / Winston are ALMOST always good picks.

As an aggressive rein with some team coordination you can get a lot done. If they have a decent rein, outplaying him is huge - block his shatters, stop his charges, shatter him etc.
you wanna stop their dps from dpsing and their support from supporting basically

if you are alone, winston works best because of 3 dps.
DVa main here.

As above, every match is situational, and mostly comes down to knowing your counters, and heroes that you synergise well with.

Sorry for being vague but that's the best answer we can offer without further details.
Thank you so much.
I flex into each role almost as comfortably but I was born a Rein main. It's huge that you contest the enemy tanks. You're the door to every teamfight. Help keep the advantage. Great tank play is a rarity at all skill tiers so if you're vocal about who you engage and what opportunities you see as a result it will do wonders for your team. If you outplay the other tank that is just a huge bonus and makes the difference between adequately filling your role and carrying.
or you just pick winston...
My rule is if they have a rein who is doing any imitation whatsoever I counter rein because I know I can beat him. Of course this doesn’t go if my dps are genji tracer.

season 6 bastion/torb shield countering
Playing d va has been my main counter to this in mid plat (sombra worked up until plat when a dps would protect bastion flank).Id get comms and run d va while team pushed. 

with her dm being trash now how would you attack an entrenched bastion?tracer's pulse bomb one shot's bastion; pretty good way to deal with him
I would go junkrat. You could triple jump flank them now and try to land/go directly onto the bastion or in between him and the turret. Your passive will kill the bastion and destroy the turret and heavily damage orisa and her barrier.
Bastion. Shields are wider than the entrenched Bastion, so there's usually some angle at which you can mow down the shield without the enemy Bastion being able to shoot at you. 

Alternatively, move the Bastion. Orisa can pull him sideways so the shield no longer covers him, Mei can lift him above the shield with her wall.  

Reaper + DVa. 2 seconds of DM are plenty enough, and Reaper can go in with wraith. All he needs is 2 good shots, that's what, .5 seconds?
Junkrat
You can counter bastions and torbs with Zenyatta is Volley or Pharah (The spread makes bastion pretty bad against her).

If there is shields protecting, go for Junkrat. He isn't hard to use and if you learn the maps well, you will find places where you can hit the barrier and the targets without even being seen.

If you have time, pick junkrat on an private game and practice fighting from an hidden place trowing bombs at the points where you will usually see an bastion.


You can also use an Mei, put a wall on front of him and go trough the area that he protects. Just keep him at bay while doing your job (This works with bastions on Hollywood that like to stay on the opposite side of the point.
Destroy his precious shield with Junkrat. Destroy him after.
He's going to be mobilized far more often than you're going to have Pulse Bomb, though.
I second this. Junkrat can help demolish shields which will leave the bastion exposed. 
It's 1 second, he fires 2 per second. Bastion has 300 health (1/3rd armor), while Reaper can deal 280 damage per shot in optimal conditions (100% of pellets crit within 11 meters of target). If I understand armor correctly, he'd deal  180 damage per optimal shot with the armor up, but someone can correct that if I'm wrong.

Chances are though, the shots won't be optimal. He'll only hit for 40 damage on armor with a non-crit hit in optimal range when all pellets hit, for example, meaning it would take 3 shots just to get the armor down. Basically using Reaper for this relies largely on being able to get behind Bastion and shove your guns into his crit spot before firing.
If you play it right you only have to use pulse bomb once. Then just always hunt for him and don't let him set up. This will usually at least get him one more time and then bomb will be up again
you're forgetting about Ironclad - 20% damage reduction

I don't know if they apply damage reduction before/after armor - I imagine before, in which case:

280 max * 0.8 = 224 - so max first hit, all crits, would be 124, leaving 176 damage which COULD happen with a full-crit 2nd shot - with some wiggle room on healing

but no way Reaper gets on him without being seen...
>It's 1 second, he fires 2 per second.

You forgot about the first shot. He fires 2/s, but over the first second he gets 3 shots.
I did forget Ironclad. I don't know whether that applies before or after.
if it's similar to WoW I would bet before - that way it mitigates more damage

20% of 100 (before armor) is more than 20% of 95 (after armor) and I would assume they would do the thing that's most beneficial

the result is 75 damage (before) or 76 (after) - just as an example
Armor itself negates after all other damage applies though. This means that for the armored character, a Reaper crit deals (7*2-5)*20=180 damage, as opposed to (7-3.5)2*20 = 140 damage. 

Armor is great if the enemy doesn't crit, but barely helps if they do, or if they have high alpha damage it doesn't matter much at all.

I'm not sure where Ironclad takes place in the calculation. It would be nice if it was after, but I wouldn't be surprised if it was before, based on how armor works.

Also, I was wrong about his damage on a non-crit optimal hit against armor, it should be 70 damage, not 40. I forgot that armor reduces and attack by the lesser of half its damage or 5, since most attacks hit for more than 10 that important piece of information skipped my mind.

Looking for VOD Review (Team Scrims 3.7k av)
Hello Guys!
We are looking for some VOD reviews for our Teamplay.
Our team is german so our calls are mostly german.
Here is a playlist of our latest recorded VOD´s: (nr 3-5 were recorded this week)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jeDt-APi174&index=1&list=PLHKt6dkTyq8PjJNJ6uAU29OGeHo8fQDMS

PS.: We are also looking for a coach for our team if someone is interested. more information per DM :)
Your video is set private. Would you mind changing that?
maybe consider switching to pc if you want to advance more/have better competetion
only one of them is private, the other 4, especially the new ones 3-5 are public :)
btw: 1 and 2 are rankeds games. the other ones are scrims

Can some one help me through overcoming all the spamming in the game?
This game as a lot of spam. All heros can spam a shit tonne of  projectiles but adding the new junkrat into the mix makes it overwhelming for me. I can't seem to adapt to the recent spammy dive meta and I'm super worried about upcoming changes. With a looming dva nerf and a lack of shields in roatation I just don't know what to do. These days my death count is climbing sky high and I get very very frustrated not being able to contribute because of spam everywhere. I can't keep track of where its coming from especially if i'm trying to heal or shoot. I'm pretty much resigning myself to the fact that I'll be in silver or lower this season because I can't seem to handle the way the game is now played.
Any tips or game play videos on what to do?
To clarify: I'm sure i can get better at avoiding damage i know is comign at me but how do i prepare for the wildly flung scatter arrows and bombs, etc?Option 1) Communicate more effectively with your tanks.

Option 2) Play Zarya. Seek out the spam; it'll be a fun change of pace. You'll be able to stay high-charge all game
 
Option 3) Seek alternate routes, and play with heroes who can take them.

Option 4) Play Mei, and use aggressive walls to create new safe routes for yourself and your team (like on Hanamura A, you can wall your team safely into the room on the right). 


Practice dodge dip duck dive and dodge. Oh and also jump
Wow, exactly mean. I play at pretty high Sr for average player but still I hate ow for 2 things ,spam and shooting shields... 

I really don't know what to do with spam I just trying not to die and if die not to tilt
As a Sombra main I found out there is a Minigame in Sombras kit improving movement and enemy prediction.
Have you ever tried crossing a choke while invisible? Its more or less "Bullethell Dark Souls" you make it or you respawn. 
Realizing I actually CAN dodge projectiles at ease if I focus on the Bullethell Minigame made step up my movement I think. 
Nowadays I casually zig-zag through most projectile spam from Phara and Junk even when not invisible.
For sure this all might be a lot harder with Chars like Hog, Torb or Zen =)
Here is my tip:

GET OF FROM THE MIDDLE OF THE STREET BOY!!!

In a war zone, the soldiers don't stay on the open trying to shot the enemy, they get covering and do the same thing.

Ps.1. Junkrat is the same as he always was, and is easy to avoid his bombs on a competitive map.

2. Avoid being in a corner without scape, this will make easy for Hanzos and Doomfists.

3. Try to stay close to your cover, and try to get an tall one, try to find things on the map that resemble the Orisa/Reinhardt's shields. and use them for protection.
I play mercy the most. Just look at the Junkspam and jump over it. With other heroes you dont have so much time to look. Play zarya and enjoy high energy?
The changes to junkrat were pretty minor imo.  Game just seems more spammy because he is the flavor of the month?  I'm sure it'll die down.

As for surviving as a squishy healer, try to use cover, line of sight, and general positioning to your advantage.  And if for some silly reason the rat gets ballsy and gets in your face, remember you can jump over the mines and most rats can't aim for shit so simple AD spam + a couple shots will usually make them go away or make them get scared and do something stupid tiger you the kill.  Just be conscious of the mine and try to range it so you have time to dodge, and learn the animation for it.
Hmm, i think most of my frustration comes from being stuck as a squishy healer. I like zarya so I'll give her more of a turn. 
I also like your mei idea. I'll look up videos for wall placement.
Option 5) Use Symmetra and walk directly into the spam.
Healer wise, against a high spam comp, I'd say go Ana and stay far behind your team or Lucio and wall ride a lot/ go for high ground (booping an enemy into your team's LOS can be a great help).

I'm only high gold/ low plat, but I have a pretty good understanding of the game. It should be common sense that tanks go in first. They should be able to draw the spam without dying immediately. Healers should stay on them as they do this. Dps (and possibly mobile tanks) should be watching for the source of spam so they can take them out and open up space for the tanks to move forward with the rest of the team behind them. 

I think Ana (if your accuracy is decent) is the ideal healer against high spam as she can keep tanks healthy while they draw the spam and dps alive when they go in for the kill. 

I've seen this video linked on this sub several times, so I'm gonna go ahead and link it again. It focuses on tanks, but it's all about controlling space. 

https://youtu.be/7Vl7jeGCkh0

Positioning, controlling space, and timing. Oh, and praying to whatever gods you might believe in that your team listens when you tell them not to enter space that's being denied before it's opened up. 
Thanks for replying! Spam going through around and generally having no interaction with tanks is what is borhering me most. Im looking up ana positioning but thtas part of my frustration, bombs and rockets flying every which way. Open maps are better since theres more room to avoid but then i just get ganked by a genji hahaha!
What to do is highly comp dependent really. If you're getting obliterated as the support, then either you or the tank are out of position, or you don't have any DPS escort (or they are tunnel visioning and not doing their job). In the lower ranks I play, proper death ball composition and movement rarely happens. I love Zen, but dives are hell if there's not a DPS to back me up. 

So I have to switch.

Personally I feel like Ana is in the same boat unless you're amazing with sleep darts. She's amazing with the right team, but if it's not the right team, switch.

Lucio has great mobility and survival, and a great pick.

Mercy can work if your team is at least in Los most the time do you can use them as escapes

If you're already the support, you'll need to get someone else to swap in if you want to pick up another role. Mei and Zarya after great as suggested as you can help keep the new support alive.

The best way to request this would be something along the lines of "I'm getting destroyed as the support, and not able to help much. Can someone back me up or would anyone like to swap and I'll protect you?"

Worst case scenario, both Zarya an Mei are good self sustain even without a support. Roadhog, Soldier, Tracer, and Sombra are also all picks you can do it no one will take the support.

It's frankly better to play a self sufficient character than a support that just gets shut down and not able to help the team enough to win fights.

Of course, you can always lock in as another class first. You might just need a new play style.

Your thoughts about the new Deathmatch mode?
So far, after playing a few games, the mode (obviously) favours DPS. However, I do see a lot of Defense and Tank picks as well. Junkrat and Torbjorn seem to be a really popular pick. Nobody picks healers in standard DM.

I really like the new map's design and how it's perfect for deathmatch and for warming up/practicing certain heroes.

The only thing I'm not particularly fond of is how it's really common to backfill because people tend to leave before the end of the match when they think it's impossible to win. I think the mode should prevent backfills after somebody already has half the number of kills required to win.

All in all, I think this mode is great. I certainly like it a lot more than CTF, which is a huge snoozefest. I prefer standard DM over TDM, since I like seeing the tab score screen. TDM really isn't much different from DM due to the arcady nature of the mode. Nobody's really "working together."

I think there's a lot of potential for DM. What do you think?I can learn dps without ruining someone's match. I had a lot of fun last night learning DF. I'm planning to play a lot more of it.
Great way to warm up in my opinion
Incredibly fun gamemode. Healers are very much viable, and personally, I love Zen on this mode. Way to train duelling and paying attention to your surroundings at all time! Even won a round on him, already.
I think DM is great because if you JUST want to kill things, then please, just play some games of DM.  This is good because some people would play QP and be totally mindless murderers, aka not even looking at grouping up or engaging at the right timing, but instead just trying to "frag out" no matter what.  These people should be in DM.  It's not a huge issue because QP is a mess anyway, but it'll help a bit.  Plus, it'll also pull some amount of the DPS-mains away from QP too, ensuring slightly better team comps on average.
Finally. Perhaps we see less 6 dps vs 6 dps in Quick Play now? :thinking:
Best mode ever for two reasons: it's really really fun and a lot of the instalock DPS mains that roam free in QP will stay contained there. It's a win-win situation, friends! Backfill is nice because you get a quite sizable XP "prize" for doing it. 
Tracers are fucking me up hard. On the other side declaring the four best ones winners to get the loot box is great. Also I suck without teammates.
FFA Deathmatch is fucking fantastic. I really like it the most because I don't have to rely on teammates. 

Team Deathmatch, on the other hand, isn't really good on console at the moment. Way too unbalanced as pharmercy is in literally every game right now and is even more aggravating to counter 4v4 than 6v6. Generally matches are Pharah, Mercy, D.Va, and a random DPS, usually Soldier: 76. Which is a fucking shame, because it's really sweaty and aggravating when your team and the enemy team has two of the best heroes on console trying to win. I've played 13 matches tonight, and every single one of them either started with pharmercy or switched to it when they started losing. Not one game without them.
As a Dva main, I'm really enjoying it as training for dueling DPS and a few other heroes.
Super fun to play. I can finally Battlemercy in peace! My only complaint rn is that she should spawn with her gun in FFA, and not with her staff.
The best thing in the world for me. I can practice aim, warm up, and new heroes without the guilt of letting my team down! I hope this stays permanent, and eventually becomes its own gamemode out of the arcade, like quickplay and comp
I've actually had a fair amount of success with Bastion. I've found that heroes with self heal (Soldier, Bastion, Roadhog) have a leg up on most of the other heroes. Normally, getting injured requires you to approach one of a small number of healthpacks, which means you're likely going to have to fight another hero at a disadvantage. 

I've also had some good Sombra games. With her passive, you can see low-health enemies and pick them off for easy points. Hacking a health pack means that as an enemy desperately crawls back for health, they're denied, and easy to eliminate. 

Doomfist is powerful as well. In a tight corridor, he's basically unstoppable, and even in the open areas he can do work with raisin apricot. 

But in general I think the consensus is that McCree is one of the best heroes for this mode. With half-decent aim, a flashbang is a guaranteed kill, and his medium-long hitscan range helps him deal with snipers and Pharahs.

TDM is a whole different animal. It's a completely different play experience to normal games or even 3v3 elimination because of the random spawning. In those other modes, getting a kill helps you outnumber the enemy team, but in TDM it only earns you a point, and the enemy immediately respawns. Likewise, in a normal team fight you can sort of have zones, with one side on the objective and the other side attacking it. But with no objectives and random respawns, the enemy you just killed could be behind you in as little as 3 seconds. It really forces you to have 360degree awareness, and I'm not sure if the mode benefits from a "balanced" comp (2DPS/tank/support) or if it's better off with 4 DPS.
just rename it to mccree brawl
I decided to play Sombra in FFA. I got 9 elims by the end of the game, but I had 20 assists... she works really well in TDM though
Didn't have that much fun in a long time. Yesterday I played 15 rounds of deathmatch, 11 of which I got first place. I only played McCree and Widow. 

I saw a lot of Tracer, Junkrat and McCree's. Also Torbjörn tilts the Fuck out of me in deathmatch. 

Played a 16th match today with Sombra and holy hell that's so much fun and to some extend a bit op. 

From the time Overwatch came out I loved it, but now even more. Thank you Blizzard
idk I felt like FFA death match was too chaotic to be good practice. I feel like my mechanics are improving a lot playing TDM. Obviously there's randomness because of the respawns but it feels good for learning positioning and aim/movement especially since it's mostly on the regular maps that you play in comp.
i booted up ffa and it was fucking team fortress all over again, bastions, torbs and junkrats
need to design maps around hp/powerups a la quake arena imo

for example you could have a pickup that spawns every 45 sec that gives you nano boost
DM is going to be a great resource to help players learn heroes on a deeper level without having to potentially ignore the objective. It is also fun.

If you were hoping for a legit, balanced FFA mode you are going to be SoL as that is near impossible without seriously limiting the roster, banning heroes, and tweaking heroes. No, this mode is going to have clear winners and losers and a weird rotational meta will come of it. 

I like the game mode, and I like being able to pick an offmeta hero to learn without pissing someone off (other than myself).
It's the best arcade mode and should stay forever being his own game mode next to Quick play 
Easily the most consistent way to have a fun time with the game in my opinion.

Nothing compares to an evenly matched comp game, but that rarely happens. QP is usually a shit show, and I don't find the other arcade modes that fun (3v3 is great, but there's a lot of waiting. Mystery heroes is fun until one side starts to steamroll because of ult advantage / good chars). Deathmatch is great for practice since there's so much action everywhere, and you basically instantly respawn.
I brought my 3v3 team to TDM and it worked out quite well. We messed around for awhile, enemy team got ahead (3-to-10 IIRC), then we buckled down into one of our Elim comps and took the game from them.

DM didn't go so well. We intended to queue together and fight it out with each other and some randoms, but we couldn't do that. We also couldn't spectate each other's games. We all tried solo-queueing it, and it was just absolute chaos. I foolishly picked Mei in a game that ended up having 4 Pharahs and 2 McCrees, and one lone Lucio who must have been lost. I can see it being winnable if I go for a DPS hero that I've practiced, but it didn't strike me as much fun. There's a million games out there where I can sprint around with a rifle and kill randoms. 

So, we might do TDM again if there's more lootbox rewards for playing it, and it was great for coordinating against an enemy team and staying a single comp (unlike Elim, where we have to switch after each win). Currently I still prefer the 3v3 Elim, but TDM is a close second for the fun we had as a small party.
I love it. If you're one of those people who complain for the custom game makers to ban heroes: shoot. them. in. the. face. 

For improvement I feel like it helps my aim and situational awareness. I haven't tried TDM yet though.
Absolutely loving it, great addition to OW! Only thing I'm sad about is that you can't queue into regular deathmatch as a group. Yes, I know, I know, custom games and all that, but I'm not sure how well it'll work without any kind of matchmaking.
I've actually seen a few very successful zenyattas, no successful lucio, mercy, ana, and I haven't even seen a Symm, but I imagine she might work.
I really like it, especially TDM. Great way to warm up and improve mechanical skill. I used to play one or two QP matches before going for competitive (like many of us) but now I think TDM will be my go-to mode both for warming up and improve aim and muscle memory with DPS heroes.
Might be interesting to have a combo of DM and Elimination, where if you die as a character after scoring at least 1 kill, you cannot pick that character again. It would force people to pick a few different characters and be comfortable and  competant at each of them to an extent. It would also force strategy as well in TDM. Do you come out of the gates with your most effective character and hope for a streak, or do you save them for later when you or your team needs to mount a comeback?
I *really* hate Mei now. My last game had 3 of them -_-
* Maybe they could add 2 more players per team on team dm
* Indoors of the new map could be a bit more well lit
In ptr it was great, but the entirety of yesterday i felt I kept getting triple teamed every 3 seconds 
I've only played it twice (won both as Soldier too :D) but I really enjoyed it. Seems like a good place to warm up and I like the shortened respawns which lets me get right back into the action. Also seems like a quicker way to get the 9 weekly wins for arcade lootboxes if you're confident in your solo ability as top 4 all get credited with a win afaik.
I think the team death match should be 50 kills to win and free for all be 25 it feels un-natural at 30 for team death match
I foresee myself spending a lot more time in this mode. I'm already holding onto the faint hope that since copa lucioball was a thing, we might see competitive DM down the road. 
I loved it as Mei. I spent most my match walling people in and dropping it when someone got a kill so I could take down the victor. Felt awesome. 
I think this is the easiest way to get loot boxes, I am always in the top 4 so it seems pretty easy. It also great for warming up my Soldier and McCree. I do wish that thier was more mega's though on the maps and better balancing (which will possibly come with more time playing DM, I seem to be playing with a lot of mechanically worse players than myself, their are time I win with more than 10 elims than 2nd place). Either way, without any changes at all I do love this mode 10x more than any arcade mode yet, especially more than shitty shitty lucioball and CTF. Lockout elims is pretty great too, too bad we couldn't make a deathmatch with lockout, you get x number of kills then need to switch or something, like I couldn't run all 20 kills with McCree. 
Something needs to be done about Symmetra. My turrets get a ton of mopped up kills, I rarely lose a 1v1, and she can troll by putting 6 sentry turrets in a spawn point. If you stand outside of it, people will keep spawning. I dont play her much at all, but I was consistently 1st-3rd place for about an hour just testing out what she can do. The ones I lost were super tight games to a Soldier who scored a visor multi kill right before the end of the game. 
I had three whole matches in a row in QP last night that had no Hanzo, Genji, or Widow on either team. 

I fuckin love Deathmatch so far. 
I think backfill should be a thing, and then just have the games going forever and you get your exp when you leave, or while you play
This was totally my own anecdotal experience, but I played 4 or 5 qp games yesterday, and I feel like they were great, even the ones we lost. 

There we're multiple tanks and healers in each game, and the team actually grouped up for pushes. It really felt like DM had bled off the people practicing new heroes or just looking for kills. Which is exactly what I was hoping for.

That effect may wear off after a while, but I hope that the trend continues so that qp and comp are concentrated into people who want to play an objective.
I found the mode a ton of fun as well as a great way to warm up. I was mainly playing Lucio and happy I was able to get several top 4 finishes as him. That being said I'd like to see ultimates disabled for Free for All. It feels unfair that a soldier/genji can get 3 ults in before I can get my one ult up. I get why, but it feels lame.  
I think it'll be cool if ultimates were "attainable" similar to other arena style games were for example every so often "quad damage" spawns in a certain area that forces players to go off and fight for the power up. I think that would be really fun to implement. Maybe make it capture point style where you have to hold the area for 2-4 seconds, so this adds a mini king of the hill element to it.
It's basically Doomfist and Mcree training ground. Bursty DPS wil  always be meta unless getting a majority of a kill grants credit instead of just a finishing hit.
Great way to blow off steam. Widow's crib is fun map. 
I just wish it didn't benefit kill stealing so much, but I guess that's the nature of DM.  Sucks getting someone to 1 hit in a 1v1 and someone else comes in and gets the credit for 2 kills. 
I like it...but they nerfed road for this and I won't forget that
I love it. It's perfect to destress after stressing in comp, I hope it stays as a permanent gamemode. I haven't tried the TDM game mode though. 
>Nobody picks healers

You don't say
Needs to disable ults.
This is my new favorite mode. I'm going to be pretty sad/mad if they make this a temporary arcade

I like regular Dm more than TDM because I just wanna kill shit without having to worry about a team or objectives. If this gets a ranked mode I might not play regular anymore. 
Really fun gamemode. You can easily win with healers. Won some rounds on ana, zen and lucio. Ults shouldn't be there imho. Also not sure, if there should be an ability restriction for some characters.
i love it! sometimes we just dont need a healer to win. great way to warm up & practice different heroes.
Junk Phara Tracer and Doomfist. Current Deathmatch mode.
Its a ton of fun.  My first game I ran mccree and came in first, with 2nd place coming in at 15 kills. Places 2-5 were all junkrats.
Tons of fun and good DPS practice, but I wish I could be in the game with my friends (I'll kill them I promise). Maybe a second queue with parties allowed would be good.
TDM is massively different than DM, played with friends yesterday and it was really fun and working together, grouping and flanking.
I was in a game... 3 genji's all decided to dragon blade at the same time. 
been playing lucio in dm having alot of fun with him kill stealing people :p
Fun but bronze vs GM seems... a huge gap...
I'm enjoying it a lot, and it's nice to finally have another arcade mode I enjoy outside of 3v3s. Especially since No Limits is gone.
The fundamental problem with it is that you're ineffective if your character requires cooldowns. Especially if they need them to deal with Genji or Tracer. 

Most characters can deal with any other character, skill permitting, but not many can deal with three tracers back to back, so it's just this loop of kill die kill die kill die kill die because the map is too small to get away from the mobile characters on instant respawns. 
Its ehh. Most of it is just dueling a person then getting your kill stolen.
Great mode and great way to warm up.

All heroes are viable, Reinhardt is probsbly the weakest though.

I already won matches with Mercy, Rein and Zenyatta, got second place with Rein
To be honest , only thing that is bothering me is the spawns. I often get spawned right next to 2 fighting genjis ,only for them to focus me instead, but I think that's it
All of my complaints about it are completely on me, which I find impressive. I was getting wrecked by Junkrats as Doomfist so I went Genji and finished second; it doesn't feel like you're always going to be curbstomped.

With that said I have an uncanny ability that if I'm going 1v1 and somebody else shows up, I always somehow end up being the 1 in 2v1. Bad luck keeps me from playing that much, but as I said that's not on the game being unbalanced or anything, which is a happy change from quitting because of dumb teammates.
Whatever his viability in other modes may be, Hog shitstomps in DM like there is no tomorrow. He just has way too much survivability and the people you hook don't have another barrier to go hide behind or a healer to top them off. 
I havent played it but i hope people are having fun with it
I'm a bit late here, but whatever. It's a fun way to warm up, as others have said. I've been mostly playing Sombra and I feel like a ghost stalking people, it's great. 
We are loving it so far, made a custom game last night and filled it up with friends. One of the best experiences playing ow we've had in awhile.
I dunno. Feels like that is where the equilibrium will be.. 
It was fun to me, different, but fun. I felt like most of the time I competed with another Tracer in who can blink around and steal kills the quickest. There are definitely characters who just have an advantage. I tried going or 76 and Mccree, but every time I did, a Tracer or Sombra would bounce in to kill the target I had at low health, so I didn't really find it fun on other characters.

TDM? Symmetra, Symmetra, Symmetra, and more Symmetra. Did I mention that you should use Symmetra on TMD? I don't think I saw a team without her, nor was I on a team without except once. The whole "panic when I'm locked on by beam" thing really shows its face in TDM, and people just don't know how to deal with it. I've yet to be killed by a Symmetra during TDM, but I can see why people like to use her.

I did get to group up with team of Tracer, Genji, Winston, Zen. We actually worked together to focus targets and dominated every match we were in. I'd like to see a match where both teams were coordinated, it would be pretty interesting to watch.

BTW, don't forget to use Symmetra.
It's pretty fun. I think it's going to be a lot better when they have a few more maps in rotation. I wanted to try to learn Tracer on this mode and I found that she is at a pretty big disadvantage because it's so vertical. Characters like Junkrat, Symmetra, and Reaper seem to excel in the small area underneath. I've also seen Hanzo and Pharah do really well.
I've been playing a lot on the PTR as well, and I've been playing each hero to try to figure out who is the most difficult to get kills with/ generally play in FFA. Zarya is definitely at the top of the list by a large margin, being that people don't group up and it's hard to get over 40 charge. Her ult doesn't help her either. I'd say Ana would be a distant second. Maybe Orisa as a slight third given that she's really directional.

Thoughts?
It seems great for training in DPS. I also played against a super annoying (read good) Lucio on there that was just getting in everyone's face and booping them off the edges.
Anyone got any really good heroes to pick? 
I only played 1 match and won as soldier to get the lootbox but i imagine theres a lot of viable heroes.
Just wait till the new mercy comes out 
It's pretty good gameplay-wise but when Pharah respawns she still says "My team needs me!"...had to stop playing after that
I like alot it's just the crappy spawns 
>TDM really isn't much different from DM due to the arcady nature of the mode.

Absolutely false. Having a healer can completely turn around a game. Think about it, in Team *Death*match, if your team mates don't *die*, you win!
I found it very enjoyable and fun and love the new map. 
Only things I would suggest for DM is to let me play with my friends. Way more fun than solo. I know obvious reason is as always easy to abuse. So thanks guys :P

Second ultimate should maybe charge for kills, so like everyone has the same chance to get the ultimate (for example tracer Vs zarya charge time seems rather unfair). 

Great for training definitely. 

TDM also fun and I love the almost instant counter picks with the teams. Keeps it rather interesting and I can play with friends. 

In the end I prefer DM more, if not for the lack of playing with my friends against each other 
I like it and it's fun to just kill stuff, but what bothers me is. It takes away what ow is imo. :/
"Nobody picks healers in standard dm"

When you play Zenyatta like every time.

In all seriousness though I like DM because it lures all the shitty DPS mains there and away from QP/comp.
It's fun, but there's already a meta developing and I'm seeing more games than not where more than 1/2 the players are Mcree, with a lot of Roadhogs inbetween. 
I had fun with it last night. Played a few matches a diff characters. Healing sucks in it though itf your team is uncoordinated. Spent the first match trying to heal as first Zen then mercy but failing as my team tried to 1v4 or 2v4. Second match I did as mccree. Faired a lot better till the healer randomly switched to doomfist. We're winning and the lost at the end. Prob my fault at that one. Mcree really seems to have a lot of trouble in it without heals. Still close and fun game. Was 29/30. 

Third went tracer. She actually does super well on it. Had a hog on the other side and with his buffs he was someone hard to take out sometimes. Take a breather with damage reduction was a nice change for him. Wasn't as close of a game but first win. Last one I played was widow. And yeah he buff can make her really hard to lock down. Ened with 12 final blows and a win in that match. 

Stuff I didn't like is how dominating genji is and in every match. That did seem to be a really deciding factor on most games. Team with the better genji won. Idk might if been a fluke. 4 games isn't a lot to draw too many conclusions from. 
Long live the Roadhog mains. I have found my place of absolute dominance again.
FFA Deathmatch is legit. I've taken a ton of games with Lucio, and the chat reaction is always hilarious. TDM is kinda lame though, but I've never been one to enjoy 3v3 Elimination too much either.
wow, its really making me realise how bad i am at DPS 
Most fun I've probably had with a new game mode, I can see myself coming back to these ones a lot. Some heroes are obviously better to use than others, though my main issue is some are just absolutely not fun to play against without switching to counters. Sniping from one small controlled area seems to be an incredibly effective strat in 4v4, or sometimes I'll see good Hanzos play keepaway in the pillar area in FFA and just run rampant on anyone that enters. Obviously the game's designed around counters, but playing/practicing with your desired hero seems to be the biggest draw for deathmatch.
>Nobody picks healers

Zenyatta's underrated man, lack of footsteps can go a long way and rmb messes fools up.
So many folks pick healers in standard DM! Myself included because Lucio and Zen are so fun. That said I've only ever made it to 2nd place playing them but,, , , one day I'll win.
I love it for practicing my aim and 1v1 capabilities with Ana. You don't have a team to babysit you so its good practice for when you're stuck dueling a dps. I also enjoy it for playing supports in general. 
Good way to practice heroes with low time spent, quick, excellent way to warm up, nobody complaining about team comp. To me this mode has so many pluses that even if there were some issues I don't see them. Plus I like deathmatches personally. 
really bad

pharah is even more overpowered in this mode and any character that can't heal is already fucked! nice!
I was kind of disappointed that I queued with a friend and we aren't able to frag each other in DeathMatch (DM). It will only let us queue for Team DeathMatch (TDM).

I'm guessing Blizzard forced it that way to prevent people from coordinating 2v1 in the main mode, but it still makes me sad.

Also, Team DeathMatch currently doesn't show the score during the "Game Ending" phase, which is pretty frustrating.
reaper roadhog takes top usually
seen some people go hanzo or widowmaker, sym with sucess
I will probably be playing it more often

I wonder if they will bring back 6v6 DM that we had a while ago
I think it's great so far. And I really wish they just develop it further. Re-balance all the characters just for this mode. Add more power ups, and just have fun with it. 
I played the two deathmatch modes just enough to get the wins for the free lootboxes. I'm NEVER gonna play that joke of a game mode again.

There's a reason why initially they said Overwatch won't have a deathmatch mode. Because it works like shit with the current roster of heroes. I mean, Ana's ult is useless in deathmatch for instance.

I think they just added deathmatch because it was easy to do and they wanted to say they added something new to the game.

But if it takes away some of the DPS mains that would otherwise queue for competitive, then I'm happy that they added it, as there are way too many DPS instalockers never-switchers in competitive.

So, if you just wanna kill, go to deathmatch instead of competitive.
Defensive heroes and Offensive heroes are all the same, DPS.

Off tanks are great on that mode as well, like RoadHog, Zarya and D.Va.

You will see Reinhardt and Orisa picks, because players just want to try their best versus the hardest opositions, making them greater on their jobs.

Also, I see a lot of Lúcio's and Zenyatta's. Since Zen can kill like an McCree without the stun but with a bit of own healling and Lúcio can be fun because he is the fun guy.
DM feels like a great way to warm, try out new heroes and learn pure mechanics - you will never get as much fighting and as little downtime in any other mode. Obviously it favors certain heroes over others (3+ McCree every round), but I found that this is a great practice never the less. And not only for dps, even healers can benefit - you do not expect to win, but to survive as many encounters as you can (had some very exciting matches as Ana last night).
I don't like it at all.  In a moment of saltiness, I told a friend last night it was the worst game mode of any game I'd ever played.  
I enjoy it, feel like it's better DPS warm-up than practice range or QP. Would be interested to see if Blizzard looks to add a competitive FFA or TDM in the future, I know they were talking about competitive 3v3 elim before
My main complaint is that characters can suicide at low hp and it won't give you the kill, even if it was your kill. Every other arcade mode gives you the kill. 
I think there is huge potential for both Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch. Both modes are fast paced/quick spawning in your face action. I think this will become
So popular that they will be forced to create a competitive mode/ladder for it. Team deathmatch is what brought cod into the hugely popular game it was and still is to some extent. 
Makes sense, all human defense heroes thrives on chaos.
Worst mode made yet imo. The reason I play overwatch is because it's completely different from cod or halo. Bring back lucioball
Personally I don't enjoy it. Everyone plays either Roadhog, Junkrat, or Doomfist. No matter who I pick I get oneshotted. Also I hate the new map...
There are a lot of compliments here, and although I agree with them they're lacking critique. 

Yes it's fun to play whatever class and practice, but there are too many players on the map to enjoy it. I want to practice 1v1, not 1v3v2v1 randomness.

This game mode presents itself as a 1v1 but after ~40 games yesterday it ultimately ends up being a "who can accidentally ambush injured / reloading / retreating players most frequently for the win, or worse so who can interrupt more 1v1s for a cheap kill and win.

Case in point: mei basically wins all of her 1v1s but rarely wins this mode. Not that playing this mode is exclusively about winning it, but for some players it is.

With less players per map there would still be the dm experience but with more fair fights, ie actually having your abilities not on cooldown and being at full health. 

In conclusion this gamemode is fun on the surface but ultimately fails to please both camps of players: I don't get much gratification one shotting people who are weak from previous or existing fights because I want a meaningful dm experience. And for those who instead gain pleasure from winning the dm's by high score (vs having meaningful 1v1s), they often feel cheated with constantly losing frags to others doing the above. As evidence to my second point the most skilled dm players don't often win, but instead the ones who just run from all fights ambushing weak ones instead. I think that's part of the game but it would be more enjoyable with less players per map, because right now that's all dm mode really is, and is too random and chaotic right now to consider a victory legitimate or to enjoy or practice successive or fair 1v1s.

I honestly hate it. There's no variety. Everyone just uses no skill characters like Reaper and Soldier 76. I think it's fun, but I can only get Helix Missiled so many time 
I think it doesn't have much value beyond training heroes/your aim, and warming up. So I hope it doesn't take ressources and efforts away from other game modes and heroes.
I have huge success on soldier. I win almost every game, depending on the amount of Genji. I'm not good with Genji, but it seems like he is so superior, especially on Chateau, as he can just dash around the map and take cleanup kill after cleanup kill.

TBH it kinda kills the fun of the game mode, as it's so easy to rake kills with him.

The new map though, is really great otherwise, and very fun!
Roadhog
It's probably the most fun in OW. No listening to bitching, no wondering why our DF likes being sent back to spawn, no hoping we actually don't have a hold my beer team, just me and my dash resets making everyone chase me for stealing their kills. So far the worse I've done is come in second place.

If this gets a competitive mode, I might never play main game competitive again based purely on the fact there is zero mic usage.
Torb is surprisingly viable in DM games due to the number of people constantly dying and creating scrap.
It's really fun I played a few matches of it yesterday thought it would be a good way to warm up. 

Couple things I don't like about it, first off I wish it would balance the games a little better I was getting matched with a lot of golds/plats and even a couple silvers (I'm gm). I also really wish you could play with friends there aren't many options to play vs your friends in ow and in my opinion this would be perfect.
My first three matches in DM I came in first,second,third place with junkrat. I am a junkrat main but it's incredible how good I was in just three matches. All in all I really like DM
Really enjoying it. The varied character design really lets certain ones shine with what they bring to the table in particular. It's also super fun for warming up, replacing my usual Custom Games presets for now. 

Only complaint is getting someone to 5% health and then having an errant shot snag the kill kinda sucks to only get an assist for 95%. I've had 5-6 kills in a row stolen that way and although it doesnt matter it made the difference between me showing up first and second. I'm not sure there's a remedy there, outside of making it point-based victory rather than eliminations.

Either way, lotta fun. Plus it lets me fuck around on Hanzo without feeling bad that I'm putting my team at a disadvantage by using a dps slot. 
First game I played of FFA had a Mercy who came 4th. The problem is healer ults are useless in FFA. New Mercy would be the exception when she's live.

I'm enjoying DM though, great warmup mode and it's just fun and chaotic in general.
I was pleasantly surprised with how much fun I had and how polite everyone was, I expected it to be demoralizing and toxic but it’s an absolutely great environment for practicing hero mechanics.

I’m hoping they do some rebalancing for support heroes though, maybe rework the support ults to have more individual utility exclusive to the game mode.
My thoughts exactly. I get to finally play tracer without other people getting mad at me for sucking donkey balls. 
I played one for the lootbox and then continued to play it all night. Fully agree, even goofing around on battle mercy, no one cares what you do and it's perfect to practice heroes against real players without ruining anyone else's game. 
I hope people play this mode when they want to DPS and "frag out".  I feel lot of DPS want to get kills regardless of the timing that is important when playing an objective
This is what I really like about it to. I can murder other players over and over in a mostly natural way. 1 v 1 was so much about not dying and was unrealistic in that the only other person on the map is focused on you. In death match, you get to practice ambushes and the like. Further, when you die 3 times the game isn't over. It lets you really get some practice in on using a hero offensively.   

Personally, I love it. I now actually have a place to practice Sombra without wrecking my team when I do that is both vaguely realistic, and let's me die/kill a lot without pause.
1000x this
Agreed, I was having a blast with genji, lots of dps players to practice against. I never hit so many one shot combos in one match and I'm really learning how to embarrass mcrees :D 
Even a great way to blow off steam in between real games. Finally we can just go and shoot the first thing that moves without compromising positioning and ruining that push for our team.
Warming up? I say make tdm and dm overwatches main mode, give us ranked for that shit. 
Yeah, Zenyatta is great there. You can easily sneak up on people because he has no footstep sounds. And when you're close to dying, pop Transcendence, speed away to a safe area and go in again. 
Finished 4th as Mercy, I'm happy. Camped around the jump pad/arch area using her float to my advantage. Swooping down to kill mei after she ulti'ed on 2 people was fun. 3 easy kills.

Similarly on lucio, easy boops around that area.

Ana is hard though :( End up having most of your efforts kill stolen by someone else.
Really? How viable is Ana, which has an unusable ult in deathmatch FFA?
One can hope. 
I hope they do, but I fully expect my QP games to still be full of Widows and Hanzos "practicing." 
No no  no.

It's a tradition.
Me and my friends have been debating this quite a bit, and while i think it will help, it won't be much. I think they should take it out of the arcade and just put it right there next to QP. And while they are at it they should rename QP Objective Mode or something similar. The name quick play just has this stigma for being the "i don't give a fuck" mode, when it's the only place to try to find a good game with the base rules without having to deal with the toxicity and salt of people afraid of losing SR in competitive.
Possibly.
I think the mercy rebalance might help with that too. She feels more fun and dynamic to play, I think it will make her more appealing to both play and practice, and people are hella more likely to fill when they see a mercy.
It will only empower dps picks in QP/comp
A competitive deathmatch mode would do wonders for the competitive system. Normal OW can proceed as intended.
How much backfill xp do you get?
Is there any reason to believe those DPS mains will stay in DM and not just play both?
That makes sense. Half of every match gets a W for arcade in every mode still. 
Try holding a room or area rather than looking for kills, your movement and aim can be worked on like this. Use your sound to see when to pop out etc
Good thing top 4 get a win in FFA, otherwise I wouldn't have been able to get that lootbox so I can completely ignore this crappy game mode.
I've actually had no issues countering the comp you mentioned, albeit on PC. What is depressing is the sym, Bast, +2 who do nothing comp. Almost every match, and then it's not fun. 
Oh man, tried Sombra in DM and got stomped, she's my main.  Switched to D.va and finished 2nd, got my loot box.  Never again.  But Team DM is fun.
i bind switch weapon to e on mercy and torb
> raisin apricot

thank you.
I've rarely seen Soldiers successful in this mode. I feel crowd control and burst damage are way more important than survival, since it doesn't really matter much if you die as long as you're killing and not feeding the same player. The most played heroes in my game are by a large margin McCree (for flashbang), Genji (dash steals kills like nothing else and blade can give you 3-4 kills easily) and Hog (pretty much unkillable in a 1v1), followed by Reaper, Doomfist, Hanzo and Widow. I'm surprised to be almost always the only Junkrat in my games because I think the map design and the game mode suit him pretty well, although it's kinda frustrating to deal with McCrees flashbanging you at every corner and Genjis jumping around like possessed fleas.
More like roadhog brawl! I think he's really good at close range with his new move-and-heal buff 
Or " Free Dash-Kill for Genji Brawl"
You meant Junkrat's face mine show
You mean Doom dee Doom Doom Doom's fisting palace.
You mean Shooty McReaper Fest. 
For me it's Tracer Brawl.
At one point we had 4 Hanzos and they were all the bottom 4. The next match they became Top 1 and Top 3, 2nd was Sym, 4th was Torb. Weird game lol.
I think its hard to position the translocator without it being seen, and so you can get to a healthpack in time
Yeah she's a lot of fun. Mercy is also strong, due to her rez denying kills and general sustain in TDM. Kind of trolly for the other team though. 
I haven't played yet but I imagine sombra's ability to see people who are almost dead is great in death match. Can cause serious tilt if you can get the final blow
This makes me wanna play Torbjörn in DM :) 
I was worried about McCree in dm, would think with how slow he is, he would be easy pickings, widow though makes sense since she can just skill shot people who are dueling and fall back down to cover
The primary issue with FFA DM on the new map is the overusage of Junkrat, IMO. Since it's all closed quarters, JR can easily net kills doing pretty much anything. Plus, with his buffs, he can just keep spamming bombs over and over.
> We intended to queue together and fight it out with each other and some randoms, but we couldn't do that. We also couldn't spectate each other's games.

I think this is by design because otherwise the mode would be easy to exploit. 

It is easy to imagine a group of friends ganging up to kill everyone else, it would be a terrible experience for the other players. 

Same thing for spectating. If someone could spectate a friend DM match it would be possible to to rotate to see the other players and communicate information to the friend.
I think the intention behind (T)DM is that you shouldn't be playing to win. Odd way of thinking, but think about it:

You're in an arena setting where you can play any hero you wish without being punished for it. This makes it no different from a QP (No Limits) game, except with smaller maps and a fast respawn. Frankly, it's pretty much exactly that, with shorter hero selection times as a plus. The only major difference is lesser players.

I think it suits the purpose of practicing new heroes quite well, really. I'm not sure how I feel about too many of the same hero being picked, though. I had quite a bit of fun playing as Mei again after not using her for a long time.

It's difficult to play when there's too many Junkrats and Doomfists roaming around. I think when FFA DM has a normal rotation for maps (not just Widow's event map), it'll be better since there will be more open area maps. TDM works in the meanwhile I suppose.
Banning heroes is really stupid, but I think they really need to buff some of the ults some of them have. Ana's ult is 100% useless in FFA. Let her inject herself
Symm is insanely good if she builds a nest around a heath pack, Usually in the basement. I'm at the point from the PTR where I go out of my way to dismantle her turrets. If she's allowed to set up with shield gen she can be beastly. Seen a few wins, best to just avoid her lol.
I play a lot of symm and was looking forward to using her in this mode.  Sadly, it didn't work as well as I was hoping.  The problem is that since there is no objective, you can't predict which way the enemy will be coming from, which makes hiding your turrets much more difficult.  Then your turrets get taken out quicker which has you waiting on cooldown a lot.  Her beam is great at cleaning up chaotic fights, but in 1v1's the spacing rarely works for her shield to help much, or it's on cooldown.  This means that you get taken out a lot by the medium and long range heroes before you can get close enough to connect the beam.  Lastly, hiding the shield generator so that it lasts at all is also very difficult.
I've only won one game of DM so far and it was with Sym. She worked surprisingly well. 
Not sure what you mean successful, but here's a top 4 lucio.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QNuMcPEbZXA

[edit] and here's a win from the same guy

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nGlGhf4cftY
Every hero has parts of the map that favor them.  (Don't go into the cellar vs a Junkrat.)  Lucio on the edge areas can be a boop nightmare.
Ooh or like gun game, auto character switch after every kill.
I'm 50/50 on this idea, since while I'd like for people to stop constantly using certain heroes (Junkrat), I would say the same for myself using a single hero throughout the match. Thus, I can't blame them.
Step 1: pick McCree

Step 2: hs Mei's evil soul out of her body

Step 3: ????? 

Step 4: profit
real talk that means your positioning is bad if you're surrounded by multiple other people in a position to be shot at
about 5 team kills is how i see 30.
Best way to deal with symm is to avoid her and kill turrets. Give it about a week and she will be less strong. On the PTR it was at a point where people would pseudo work together to take her down. If people keep wrecking her turrets she loses a lot of momentum. Also Winston/DVa are pretty strong anyway and will mostly counter.
This was not my experience at all.  Even putting my turrets in spawn locations they still got destroyed really quickly and then always had to be placed one at a time on cooldown.  In 1v1s I did ok, but only if I got the drop on them to connect the beam.  Anyone who saw me beyond that distance will could generally kill me pretty easily as the cooldown is really long on the projected barrier.  

It's good to know that my experience does not have to be the rule because I love playing her.
This is interesting, because I've had syms in my DM games but I haven't seen even one get into the top 4. My experience has been that she almost always loses
I haven't seen much of that, but in Team Death match my friend did respawn inside a Symmetra nest. 

Shouldn't be able to nest a spawn, IMO. 

I kind of dislike the idea of spawn camping in general though, not just for symmetra.
Compers are playing qp right now as it's in between seasons. 
Genji shift!
Lucio is actually decent if you know how to wall climb and bait people outside for boops!
The meta will turn into one hero...
You can't queue as a group, but you could probably join a DM custom game as a group.
Roadhog, mcree, and genji seem to be the top heroes at high mmr, so try picking those if you're decent with them.
Pretty much DPS.
Seems to be McCree honestly. I came in first in my first 6 games. Then lost the next two to a 4200 GM McCree.  

Playing against Roadhogs makes DM less fun though. =/  

Also, Genji's dash reset is OP for cleaning up fights between other players.
>This game mode presents itself as a 1v1

When does it do that?
I've been winning as Mei actually; it just has to do with the other players' hero picks.

If it's all Junkrat or Doomfist, she can't do anything except kite, so she's at a disadvantage is such tight quarters, but otherwise if the picks are more varied, she's pretty fun to play in FFA.
Unless you enjoy the concept and play of DM more than control points and payloads. Then it has loads of value
Yeah, I feel that although you *can* simply take advantage of certain heroes' strengths to win FFA easily, there's really nothing to gain from doing so. Maybe if your goal is to grind lootboxes quickly, then you could just kill steal those 20 eliminations as Genji.

Personally, I find it is a good mode to practice heroes and to try to improve your 1v1 as well as 1v2/1v3 capabilities. I certainly wouldn't mind having FFA and TDM as permanent game modes over CTF.
The donkey was not mad. 
I'm GM and I play a lot of Quick Play with a friend that is bronze and a reaper main with a 17% weapon accuracy.

I think over like 50-100 hours two people got mad at him for being bad. I never understood this "people getting mad at me in Quick Play" thing
> 1 v 1 was so much about not dying and was unrealistic in that the only other person on the map is focused on you.

Yes, it was about who was the more patient camper. Boring.

So glad deathmatch is here.
Make mercy rezzes make the kills go down by 1 and I'm game.
> You can easily sneak up on people because he has no footstep sounds. 

Holy shit, I had no idea...
I've played zen a couple times on it and I've found transcendence to be a big middle finger to whoever was about to kill you
Makes me wonder what DM will look like once Mercy's new ult goes live. 

With Ana it's all about managing your cooldowns and using them optimally.
 How else can you practice the comp modes? That's what qp is for
Hanzo, widow, torb, mei, genji, and zen is the traditional team
I actually think a better solution is to add a new game mode called CompLite or something. Have wins give you 1 or 2 competitive points, but don't have rankings and keep the QP ruleset. The problem with QP is simply that there is no great benefit to winning. If there was, people would be trying to win more often. 
"Objective Modes" would include *Capture The Flag* though....
Anyway, I think Arena and Deathmatch are really fun and would deserve a spot right next to Quick Play, Competitive and the Game Browser

Edit: Perhaps even making a new menu point for Competitve? After having Competitive Lucio Ball, I see a lot of Salt potential in all other game modes Kappa
I'm pretty sure it will happen, eventually. 
300ish i don't remember the exact number. 
They can't be at 2 places at the same time, so even if they don't stay 100% of time in FFS, there will be a reduction of DPS instapicks in QP. At least in theory, ofc. Let's hope that in reality too. 
I, too, will never play this game mode again, because I just suck at it. So I'm glad I got my lootbox from my second game finishing fourth. 
I have it bound to scroll wheel, makes it super easy to switch.
That's a really cool idea 
He's just really good now.
for real, genji seems to be really OP in DM.  Wall climbing and dashing is so good
Co-Starring Soldier76!  I don't know that I saw any other characters being played other than those two.  Maybe your odd Tracer here and there.
Pilot, your Tracer is ready.
I never get to play tracer and so last night I must have played dm with her ten games in a row. So much fun. Ty blizzard.
It definitely does help a lot. I spent most of my games last night as Sombra hunting down half-dead people running for health packs (which I had hacked, of course, mwahahahaha!)
You... I don't like you
You should always play Torbjorn


I've encountered a few Torbs in DM and it can be deadly. Just place your turrets near health packs and kill low hp characters trying to heal up
I'm playing super aggressive with both of them. It's all about out aiming the enemy really
In my experience I just keep getting pocked sanded by a McCree from behind.

I also had a game with like 3 Meis and wee keep stealing eachother frozen targets
I feel this way about pharah in dm. You see her in every game bc she just has so much burst damage 
Its not too bad. Junkrat still struggles against a lot of the duelist heros that are being played. I like to stick to the outdoors areas and use jump pads if im a range hero.
You mean FFA? I assume her ult is *only* useful in TDM.
Hahaha, I've actually gotten instakilled once when I spawned into a Symmetra kill room.
I feel like a Junkrat would clear out that nest pretty handily. 
Pharah in the courtyard/near edges is absolutely disgusting. 
I think gun game would be awesome. I'm not sure how to line up the heroes though. 
yes please. Doesn't necessarily have to be random though. Kind of like how gun game ends with melee as it's the hardest.
Three freeze rays all running around you at once :E
but TDM is 4v4 so 5 team kills is only 20...
That's interesting. I saw a few DVas but no winstons I don't think. I have a bad feeling it's going to DVa center all in there after patch. 
Interesting! Maybe I just play like an asshole. If you wanted to know where I hung out, I stayed in the room with the fireplace, and I also tried outside. What made me laugh outside was putting the turrets super high on the wall after using the green boosters to jump. 

In the fireplace room, TONS of people come for that pack when they are low on health. Set up two turrets inside the fireplace, set the rest randomly. Regular places will get spotted and anticipated, but make sure that they don't get an angle to shoot before players get into the room. 

In the basement, six turrets in the outside wall (high) won't be seen until the player is low on health. That gives you time to come in and finish them off, replace turrets, leave room, repeat. The two hallways into this area are longish, so you can trap soldiers and other dps and target them sooner. 

Outside didn't work that well, but it was fun. Too much traffic and room for genji to tear you apart, people walk along the top of the structure there. I stayed inside and made sure I was in an area I could side step Doomfist easily. TONs of Doomfists running around fighting Genji, lol.
Maybe it's because I am on console? Max sensitivity is a joke; it's crazy slow. My PC is down until I can afford a new card, so I am doing Xbone for a bit longer.
My experience noticeably worsens during the off season.
I guess that's true. I figured some compers probably stuck to practice comp, but I'm sure you're right that many migrated to qp
>Lucio is decent if your opponents are bronze and can't aim

FTFY
and whos that. 
I think Hanzo is scarier. Wall climb, wall hack, scatter, Dragons and silent weapon.
I legitimately had my most frustrating match just now: Everyone ran Junkrat, Doomfist and Roadhog. Guess I'm done with DM for the night. A ton of people kept leaving the match. It was just really frustrating to play.
Yea, I had a few games with roadhog just hogging(lol) the jumppad all game, spamming hook and healing, once off cooldown. 
I only fight Hogs if they are low health or I'm close to ult and need some free charge; otherwise I let others waste their time on them. In the dozen or so games I played so far Hogs more often than not ended up in the middle of the ranks with fairly low kills and low deaths.
While there was always a roadhog or two they never seemed to get into the top 4. I just avoid being close to them while hook is off CD. Mccree is my most consistent to win with but I saw people win with almost half the cast, I really liked Zen for this mode.
When it uses the term death match. 

Is this your first FPS and / or DM experience? 

I've been playing since doom and quake. I know what DM is.
those junkrats and torbs are not going to go away, best to find some mccree-only ffa lobby and practice there
"Winning" doesn't really do anything, you only need to be in the top 4 to farm lootboxes.  So don't let it bother you too much.
He used his teeth
   He used Graviton Surge
I'm usually support or tank.

Tried out Soldier one time in Quick Play and that's the one game where people were using voice chat and they were like "don't play dps if you can't aim."

=(
quickplay is the main game for a lot of us, and it really wears at you having a team of 5 DPS constantly. Healers can't live because there isn't a tank, and tank players can't tank because they have no heals. It gets super frustrating when only 1/6 games has something other than dps. 
You won't experience it, neither will I (3600SR) because we get matched with people of higher elos in QP. When I queue with my mercy main friend, she likes to practice tracer/widow in QP but often gets ridiculed by people telling her to switch.

Blows my mind but let's face it, qp is the primary gamemode for a lot of people.
That's surprising to me, but good for you two.

I've been told to kill myself by a teammate for playing Tracer poorly. Another time I was called out by the enemy team in match chat for being bad.

Do you guys go into team voice when you queue as group?
They do already.
he literally floats :P

but you can hear him charging up the rightclick, so be careful when "sneaking while charging"
On PTR her new ult was really strong. Saw one person win with her. Of course now they reverted the extra fire rate and damage. You should be able to easily get 1k or 2k with it, but not 4K like before.
I managed to get a few potg's and a win as mercy in FFA DM even though my aim sucks. Also lucio is tons of fun in DM :D
New ult?
While true, he out is still completely useless.  Blizzard should make it so she can nano herself in DM.
I guess I wasn't specific, but I mainly meant aim. There are people out there who could get work done in custom games. It just gets old seeing Widow & Hanzo regardless of effectiveness or situation. I was traumatized by the countless snipers in TF2 back in the day. 
You can be sure 80% of those Widows and Hanzos don't even play those heroes in comp.
>zen

you have people picking supports other than symmetra in your quick matches?

I was thinking hanzo | widow | genji | sombra | tracer | reinhardt*

*the perfect QP tank for this comp because he protects exactly no one


Only if I pick the Zen.
There's still no real benefit there. If SR isn't at risk, people won't try.
If it ever does, it will take a whole lot of time. The problem with deathmatch in a hero-based game is that it is insanely hard to balance. There are specific heroes that are terrible in DM, for example. Just as there are also some that in the right hands could be completely overpowered. It would quickly develop a very skewed meta that doesn't necessarily fit a balanced, fun competitive game.
The map definitely favors close combat, spammy heroes like Junkrat. 

It's just too annoying having to dodge grenades spammed from 4+ junkrats. You'd say "play Pharah then". Well, I didn't join this game mode to be forced into picking a specific hero because of the choices other players made.

I have it on scroll up.  Scroll down for crouch spam is too useful.
Might not work next patch considering Mercy is getting her own E ability.
Omg I thought I'd never see this said on reddit again
Tell that to McCree and his jumppad + ult combo of death.
Genji, Tracer, Mei, McCree, Hog, Soldier, Junkrat, and Pharah all seems pretty good. That's a pretty large amount of heroes just from 1 day of deathmatch games that seem like solid picks to win with. I don't think any of them is really op.
Sombra and widow tho 
Its 80% Genji, Tracer, MCCree in high elos lol
haha sorry mate :) 
i do really enjoy being Torb, the loop on his shots are great from a distance  
"pocked sanded"? 

Maybe it's just too early for me, but I have no idea what this is.
except you are a really easy target for other hitscan heroes if you do that
Yeah meant ffa. I realized this as soon as I commented but couldn't pull up the tab >_<
1st attacker, 1st defender, 1st tank, 1st healer, 2nd attacker... 

It would give a good mix of tanks dps and healers at any time, make the final person battle mercy.
Exactly run it through a set list, start with "easy characters" like 76 or dva and finish with someone hard, like battle mercy
Well now don't I feel stupid..
Oddly enough I **love** qp in the off season. I mainly play comp so in the off season I get the best of both worlds in qp; 1/3 seem to be tryharding, 1/3 are memeing / goofing off and the rest are just doing their normal qp business. I find it incredibly fun.
That bottom area with the small health pack is glorious for dragons, and it always seems to have a big melee going on.
pharah?
Deathmatch has always been FFA in every FPS game I played.  1v1s are usually a separate gamemode.  Isn't Quake 1v1 called Duel? 
aw man i'm sorry about that. quick play is really the only mode where you can try out new heroes, so i really can't understand why some people are so serious about it. just have fun, it's a game! anyways, i hope you get to play more soldier and have fun too!
It would be nice if the availability of DM meant that players now go to QP looking to fill well-rounded comps, but I won't hold my breath.
I do, but noone in Quick Play ever uses it
Oh sweet, then yeah I'd love for a competitive ranking for TDM and DM.

Its kinda annoying the disparity in skill levels with matchmaking, having GM and diamond in the same games is kinda annoying.
Yeah but he can still get caught in a junk trap 
Valkyrie mode. Haven't you been keeping up?
He??
If I want to play Widowmaker, I won't go to an "AIM LOBBY", or play Deathmatch for the simple fact - other people are too good.

In Deathmatch there's 7 enemies trying to kill me and there's no one looking out for me, I'm going to die and lose guaranteed. In an AIM LOBBY there's always some guy with 100 HRS on Widowmaker who is in Grandmaster one-tricking her who ruins it for everyone else, in my experiences with the lobbies.

If I could, I'd go to Capture the Flag or No Limits. But they're not around, and I'm not going to play Comp with her. So you're stuck with me in QP because I want to have the best chance to succeed at Widowmaker as possible.
But why would you go to a game mode which rewards less XP than QP? 
I legit audibly laughed, thank you. 
Zen uses discord only and only for themself
"Zen change wtf we need a tank"
my thoughts exactly! blizzard ruining my macros
He's a fucking lunatic now, sure he doesn't do the damage he used to, but he makes up for it with sheer survivability, I was using the rebreather to survive junk tires and such.   
   
The man is truly a vape god
I mean, he just got two massive buffs. He doesn't one shot anyone, but in a duel you can land 2-3 long range shots or 2-3 shot range shots for sure. They can't even ult you. Hook + take a breather = survive a genji ult. 

oh and if you're able to find someone dumb enough to fight you on a jump pad, it's like super mobile shootgun hook character that you can't kill because it's hard to shoot him and he heals.
I've had hard rounds with genji, mecree and soldier but I have been able to keep up or win as pharah
You mean bastion skeet shooting? 
You forgot doomfist. He's pretty amazing in deathmatch.
weird i played like 15 rounds and didn't see a single reaper. Only saw a handful of 76s. My matches were all tracer mccree roadie and gengu
[makin a chicken out of a feather](https://js41637.github.io/Overwatch-Item-Tracker/resources/heroes/torbjorn/voicelines/torbjorn-a-chicken-out-of-a-feather.ogg)

\[[source](https://js41637.github.io/Overwatch-Item-Tracker/#/heroes/torbjorn)\]
[Pocket Sand!](https://youtu.be/PTAXUYLbFYk)
I meant E and FtH. I was referencing this: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QLpUq__iQqw
Yeah itd be cool if they gave lucio his luciobal ult or something too.
I'm going by unofficial but socially accepted gamemodes. In UT, quake, Ratz and a couple others, DM lobbies usually cap out at 6-8 players depending on map size, and more of the advanced lobbies had strict 5 player limit. In a map as small as chateau 5 *maybe* 6 would have definitely been the limit.

Literally all I am saying, coming from someone with easily over 10k hours of pure DM, is that this doesn't appeal to us because it has too many players on the map. It just needs slightly less. As it is right now it awkwardly sits in between two other accepted tried tested and true DM formats. 
Thanks. I discovered that I'm halfway decent with Pharah, so I tend to pick her if I have a hankering for dps.
yeah, I'm really hoping that it does. I've played a couple of hours of quickplay since the patch, and so far my games have generally had a lot more variety. 

They're both too random to have ranked modes.
the trap, if you look at it, jumps a good meter when triggering

grabs him right at the balls eh orbs
"her ult" is what they meant to type.
What about bots? That's my go-to when I want to practice aim. So long as you're legitimately trying to win I don't have a problem. 
Zen: "I am a tank!"
Almost every tdm match I played yesterday had a hog in it. That dude is absurdly hard to kill now. I'm reloading for the second time trying to kill him and suddenly his breather is up AGAIN. If it wasn't for the ult charge I wouldn't even bother, effin unkillable.
Yup, you're right. Fist is also really good.
Video linked by /u/beldr:

Title|Channel|Published|Duration|Likes|Total Views
:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:
[POCKET SAND!](https://youtube.com/watch?v=QLpUq__iQqw)|NintendoZACHERY1337|2011-03-06|0:00:13|5,598+ (99%)|609,407

> I do not own king of the hill, if you're wondering what...

---

[^Info](https://np.reddit.com/r/youtubot/wiki/index) ^| [^/u/beldr ^can ^delete](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=_youtubot_&subject=delete\%20comment&message=dmbuaw5\%0A\%0AReason\%3A\%20\%2A\%2Aplease+help+us+improve\%2A\%2A) ^| ^v2.0.0
Bots have predictable movement, don't focus me, etc. I understand you're sick of people playing Widowmaker or Hanzo in your games, but a lot of us have nowhere else we feel comfortable playing them.
Do you think this was an inadvertent buff to hanzo because scatter arrow is one of the only things that can burst him down now? Well, I guess it only does 450 damage max out of his 600, but if you can chip him a little and then scatter you might be able to do it
Yeah I've noticed Roadhogs don't usually win deathmatch but God damnit do they take forever to kill. Even with multiple Doomfist punches. I just avoid him unless he's close to an edge 
Yeah I've noticed Roadhogs don't usually win deathmatch but God damnit do they take forever to kill. Even with multiple Doomfist punches. I just avoid him unless he's close to an edge 
No worries man, good luck out there.
Yeah, possibly. I also saw quite a few reapers picked half-way through the match because of how hard to kill hog is.
They just BUFFED Hog, how can that be an indirect buff to Hanzo? 
Hog has more survivability now.
Well at the very least I mean we might see more hanzo play because he's the only one even close to being able to still burst him down
Reaper is much better than Hanzo at destroying Roadhog.

Anyone tested the new "Aim Ease" parameter?
Under Options > Control > Advanced, they added a new customizable option which is called "Aim Ease". I was wondering what it was used for and if anyone tested it yet?I have, and from my understanding, the higher it goes; the slower the camera moves when just coming out of the dead zone on the stick. So if its at 100, camera pans slower and "eases in" to your natural sensitivity 
They keep adding all these options to change the aim on console, but it's just way too daunting for me so I leave it all untouched.
They hot fixed the bug, it does help a bit with linear ramp
 Its on console and its busted atm. Feelsconsoleman
What is the best aiming technique on console anyway?  I've heard linear ramp is best, but not sure why or anything else. 
I'm just curious because I've never understood the differences. 

Also, it threw me off yesterday when my reticle suddenly changed colors and sizes slightly after the patch. 
Is there a video of explaining all of these aim assist options?
I don't think they know what they're doing, I think this games seriously affected how I aim in other games, dual zone isn't like any other game I know of.

They need to get some people from respawn to fix it honestly, it's a mess. I don't think I've seen "aim smoothing" and "aim ease" in ever in a game. 

Where are the dead zone sliders, where are the aim acceleration curves. 

There needs to be a slider for when the turning should be really fast.

There needs to be a graph in-game that changes when you adjust your settings to show your sensitivity curve or something...
It's for console.
[deleted]
That assumes that they don't adjust it for you.

The basic principle is this. On PC you're able to quickly drag your mouse over a long distance, so you can have very low sensitivity and still do a 180. On console low sensitivity helps you aim, but it also makes it hard to turn, so they're trying to come up with a way for you to have low sensitivity, but if it senses that you're trying to turn really fast, then it speeds up for you. It seems like they keep screwing it up.
How is it busted?
I think most of the best hitscan players use dual zone with about 95 aim smoothing so that's what I use. Seems to work the best.
Im playing with the Dual-Zone setting. Ive lowered the "Aim Smoothing" setting a bit too. Takes a bit time to get used to it but feels more snappy in the end. 

My aiming was a bit messed up tho yesterday after the Patch... Thats why i was wondering about the new "Aim Ease" setting..
Check out unlikeaik on YouTube
probably not because it sounds crazy abusable/hackable
On PC, the only dimension you have to worry about is space. If you need to move your reticle X distance in a certain direction, then you move your mouse the Y distance in that same direction.

On console, if you need to move your reticle X distance in a certain direction, you need to move your right stick Y distance in that direction for Z seconds. The less you move your stick, the longer you need to hold it. Plus, after a certain distance you can't move your stick anymore, so you just have to wait until the reticle gets there.
They should just add a 180 quickturn button to both versions,  imo
It affected Dual Zone when it should've only affected Linear and Expo Ramp. I believe Blizzard has patched that issue now.
I'm curious as to where you are getting the "most of the best HS players" comment from. Do you have data or is thus simply what a few of your friends in diamond and up use?  (Not trying to sound like an ass or elitist, just curious on the background of the info)
Lol it would be an interesting innovation for sure. 
James Cameron's Avatar: the Game had this gameplay mechanic mapped to R3, honestly made life super easy, I'm not sure why it didn't catch on.
Only if pc gets one too. 
Wait... Is that why my aim felt so jerky recently? Like it would lag behind when  trying to make small adjustments and then when I moved my stick 1 mm to compensate, it would jerk my vision like half a screen away.
There's a whole stickied thread on OWConsole about it, along with an incredible amount of people posting every time they mess up the aim to try to fix it. And yeah, a huge percentage of all the streamers/youtubers/verified highly ranked owconsole redditors use DZ. Obviously we don't have stats, but you just wind up getting a feel for their popularity when we're talking about it all the time because aiming is such a problem. DZ by far #1, then Linear/Exponential.  
Just from what I've seen YouTube/streamers post. 
CS GO has it already 
Same mechanic was in Left 4 Dead as well. As a PC gamer that is currently only able to play on console this feature would be greatly appreciated

Solo queueing for the first time?
Hi there!

So in season 4, I've done my first placements when I reached level 25 in soloq having no idea what competitive really was. Keep in mind that Overwatch is my first FPS. I placed high Silver, had no idea what it even represented and didn't even think I could get into higher ranks.

Season 5, placed gold. Though I was still trash at the game, I, at least, understood the global mechanics of competitive.

One month before the end of the season, I went from 2100 SR to 2500 in exactly four days duoqing with a friend. It was absolutely crazy but I knew I got so much better than before. I can aim decently and I have really good gamesense which compensates for me panicking during 1v1s sometimes.

After that, I played in a 6stack and reached my season high of 2660. I was incredibly proud and happy, I never thought I'd make it so far in one season but I progressed so much it felt right. I didn't feel like the enemies were too hard to deal with. But playing in a 6stack meant playing against 6stacks, and though some of them were more coordinated than us we never got steamrolled. When we'd lose, it'd always be a really close loss (2-3) (3-4), we'd never score a 0 on our side. We lost those games proudly, knowing it was very good games because both teams were performing at their best. Losing had never been so satisfying however. I wouldn't get tilted easily.

Eventually, we started losing coordination I guess and would lose more often. I started bouncing between 2420 and 2550 back and forth, all the time. It was very frustrating, eventually, my teammates lost all will to play comp as the end of the season approached and most of us had to go back to work anyways.

Last day of season 5, one of my teammates and I decided to duoq expecting nothing. We expected trolls, leavers, and that's exactly what we got. Trolls and leavers, 1 match out of two. We played strictly for fun, I ended my season at 2402. It was okay though it wasn't what I wanted.

I'm not sure my team wants to keep playing anymore and I haven't ever solo queued besides when I had no idea what competitive is, but only the idea of it gives me extreme anxiety.

I don't know if it's because I'm scared of toxicity (because anxiety just does that, I'm scared I won't perform well enough and that i'll get hate), because I'm a girl and people will hear it when we communicate, or simply because I won't have someone I know with me to queue with. I don't have that many people whose skill I really know to queue with besides those ones, and I feel absolutely terrified at the idea of solo queueing.

I really want to play this season and be able to only rely on myself for competitive. I want to be able to get good, reach Diamond at least, improve (which I haven't felt like I have since I noticed major improvements in my gamesense or mechanical skills) even more and overcome this anxiety.

I know I'm ranting a lot, but I want to know if anyone had advice for someone who's wants to soloq for the first time? I know I'm overreacting and overthinking but it's so easy to panic. It's just a game yet people can be so mean about it and care so much it gives me anxiety. Not sure how I'm going to do my placements but yeah.

TL;DR: My only real experiences in comp are duo/trioq up to 6stacks and I want to soloq for the first time this season but my anxiety makes it really hard for me to start a game in soloq, any advice for the first time solo queueing?

edit: i play on ps4 if it matters which is why i can't type in chat and would have to speak to communicate. 
i main tracer but can play a decent reaper/soldier/widow (though I most likely won't try to play her lol) and a really good mercy. What I find really useful when solo queueing is to stop playing for a few hours after 1-2 loses. Not only does this give you time to rest and reset your mind/tilt, but also allow you to play with different people since if you immediately queue again, you might be playing with the same team/trollers again.
Hey there! Fellow girl Overwatch gamer here in a similar SR rank as you, so I feel like I can give you some advice for this. I went from sub bronze to mid plat in season four, and got to high plat this season. Ultimately the goal is to make it to Diamond and beyond. I did most of that solo queuing. I also used the LFG subreddit, which helped find people to play with, although those were never consistent people to play with. 


Solo queue is a daunting and at times terrible place, especially for women. Some of the 12 year old assholes in solo queue are just down right dicks, but you cant let that get to you. All they want is attention, and them acting out is their way of hoping that you'll give it to them (remember in like fifth grade when guys would be mean to girls because they liked them? Same concept). By not imitating with the assholes, you're shutting them down, and eventually they will stop. Even if they don't you can always take a five minute break after the game so there is a less of a chance you'll be matched up with them again.


I don't know if you're using your mic to communicate or not, but you should be. Just because you're a girl doesn't mean that you shouldn't communicate with the rest of your team. From your name I'm going to guess you main tracer and mercy? If you play Mercy more than Tracer, you really should be communicating more  with your team so that way they know when there is a flanker in the back line etc. Without you being voice to help guide and control the team, your team is going to be much more disorganized. It also shows that you're not someone to mess with, and you can play just as well as your other teammates. By staying silent, you're helping no one. 

I've actually found that I find the best people to duo queue or even 6 stack up with when I solo queue. Its not every game, but there are some games where there is an amazing DPS who communicates, and as long as I'm communicating back, we will end up duo queuing. I met one person who is an amazing DPS and we work really well together. We ended up duoing and going from like low 2500 to mid 2800 in a couple of hours. The games where you find people you gel with may be few and far in between, but don't be afraid to send those people a friend request or group with them. 


Be friendly and calm and likely other people will also be friendly and calm. I was initially very reluctant to talk going solo but it got easier the more I did it. I ask how people are doing and then mostly make basic callouts. No one has ever complained about that. 

Anyone who sounds really obnoxious right off (somehow rare for me) gets a swift mute and I'll just keep talking to the other players (I assume you can do the same in console?). I ask for help when needed but if no one responds I shrug it off and figure out something else to try. 

Worst case, remember the negative opinions of some random stranger you play with for 10 minutes are of no concern. 
This is right, 100% right. I'm going to try and remember it next time I tilt off and insist on winning before I log off. 
> insist on winning before I log off

Im like completely opposite lol I insist on loosing before I log off. Why would you want to be on a loose streak and log off when you finally break it.
Because I'll probably play, lose the game, play again to gain my win back, lose again and regret all my life decisions.

Did the hitbox changes for Doomfist go live?
Was there ever hitbox changes on his punch? I thought I saw it somewhere, but did not see it in any patch notes.I'm almost certain they did. Doomfist feels a lot less dangerous to play against and my friends who play him say it's harder to hit airborne targets with punch.
It's in. I jumped over a charging doomfist with genjis doublejump on several occasions already.
Good, no more getting hit with Fisto's huge ass hitbox.
I had an awesome game with him and then felt something really off in the second game, felt really hard to hit people even if I was punching from an only slight height advantage... thought the nerfs had gone through but got told they hadn't... makes me feel a lot better knowing they have haha
Yup.  Gone the way of the Hog with one small ghost patch. (disregarding how good hog is now with latest patch but you get what I meant)
This is great! I hated when rocket punch required less aiming than Winston's Tesla cannon. 
yes they did
Yep I played death match as DF and hit nobody :( 
They are and Doomfist is dead. It didn't turn the punch into a skill shot, it is as unreliable as Reins pin. Sometimes you won't get a front on hit, combine that with random bullshit surfaces not connecting and how easy he is to kill and Doomfist is more frustrating than fun to play. 

Look he may be super good with a pocket Grandmaster Zarya and Ana but most of us can't even get a fucking Zen orb to stay on. Doomfist need a range/spread buff and I'd be completely fine with a punch nerf for it. 
Exactly my thoughts. I'm not landing punches in the air as easily anymore, so I figured they ghost patched him in.
Im not unhappy with this, its really unfun to play against it with the random hitboxes aswell.
In practice range, I can see a difference by purposefully aiming to the side, but I havn't had any issues in actual matches, if anything it feels slightly more reliable when hitting against some surfaces.
Remember people bitching about Reins pin being broken? Now imagine a character built around a pin attack having a broken hitbox. Great... 
Completely opposite experience, some surfaces aren't connecting properly and more worrying is going straight through people without connecting. 

Yesterday I had a punch lined up on a Junkrat tire, I went through it but it didn't detect. The Junkrat 'blew his load' out of surprise as well, I asked him what he saw on his screen and he said he saw me go through the tire. 

How many heroes should I "main?"
I have a hero in each category that I'm pretty good with in case I need to switch or one is picked. How many heroes should a player know pretty well on average though?I'd say roughly 2 of each DPS, Support, and Tank. The main reasoning is that 2-2-2 is most frequently run regardless of the meta, so although you could learn one of each category, if that one hero is taken, you're forced to play something you're unfamiliar with.
as many as necessary and as little as possible

i personally usually play 2 heroes as much as possible, one i always pick and another one if the "always pick" is taken, and then at least 2 to fall back on if the team comp doesn't allow for my two main heroes to be played.

those two fallback heroes are then of the other categories than my two main heroes

last season i played almost exclusively zen and winston, but i could fallback on pharah tracer sombra and soldier if necessary

you shouldn't bother playing more than maybe 6-8 heroes though, you'll stretch yourself too thin
Honestly?  All of them.

I say this because I know you won't, but generally I think players err on the side of learning too few.

There are two ways you can approach the many different heroes of Overwatch:

 - "I HATE EVERYONE.  REAPER4LYFE."  In other words, you commit to a hero (or heroes) and get very good at that style.  I make fun of Reaper, but I actually quite like the movement pattern I naturally fall into when playing him, sort of a slow back/forth strafe.

 - "Which hero is appropriate here?"  With this approach, you let the state of the game tell you who you should play, and then you pick that hero.  Frankly, I think this is the superior method, and it's what I do, but it's not for the faint of heart.  You will be wrong.  A lot.  But the reward is that you can really turn games around.  Overwatch has 25 different heroes, giving you access to a lot of crazy powers that most players don't even think to use.
I tend to have a triad: Sombra, Mercy, and D.Va.

Though I'm in a unique position as a Sombra Main since I would need to know the other characters and their abilities for the purpose of hacking them to shut them down and prioritizing hacking. So I would back up D.Va as Orisa since I have played so many Mystery Heroes (I used it as part of my Sombra training to know other characters and their abilities) to get a General working feel.
Last season I had 14 heroes that I had 1 hour or more of play time on, and I got to masters. I pride myself on my versatility and being able flex to anything my team needs. I think maining a hero is just a bad idea, you get a much better understanding of the game by playing a variety of roles not to mention your team won't hate you for instalocking a 4th dps when you need a tank.
Honestly, this depends a lot on who you play with and what your goals are.

If you have a regular group that you play with, pick a role and stick to it. Become better with different heroes in that role, and understand the strengths and weaknesses of each so you can always make the optimal pick for your team's needs.

Solo queue, you'll want at least one tank, one support, and one DPS. Whichever role you prefer, take a second. There are a handful of 'must haves', or really heroes that are fairly flexible in team comps- Lucio or Ana for heals, Winston or Zarya for tanking, and Soldier, McCree, or Tracer for DPS.
In most online games I've played, I've had 1 or 2 mains, and then also some other heroes/classes that I can play at whatever elo I'm in. So in League since I was a midlaner/adc, I mained 2 mid heroes and 2 adcs, but could also play 3 junglers, 3-4 toplaners (one of my mids could be ran top), 5 supports, another 4 adcs and another 7 mids (heroes are A LOT more similar to each other in League though, and having a big hero pool is valued since there are 140 or so heroes, and you're supposed to be able to counter in the draft phase etc; also in retrospect, after playing OW, I'm realising I was never as good at all my non-mains as I thought haha).

In OW I main McCree, but can also play Genji/Reaper/76/Sombra/Mei (my Sombra/76 are a bit worse since my tracking isn't great; I mainly go Genji if McCree's not working, or Reaper if it's a good map), D.Va/Winston (my Winston is pretty bad, working on that) and Ana/Zen well enough in my sr range (mid-high plat). Season 4 and prior, I mained Reaper/Genji, but could also play 76/D.Va/Ana/Zen.

Dunno about the average, but it's generally recommended to be good at (for your elo) at least 2 heroes per role (dps/tank/healer). From having watched a lot of pro games (not that this applies to us mortals too much, I just find it interesting mostly), the average pro player seems to mainly play 1-2 heroes and/or main a role/class, and can flex onto more. Generally these are similar between players too. E.g. McCree players also play Tracer, tanks can often flex onto Reaper, supports can usually flex onto Sombra, etc. 76, Reaper and D.Va are really common flex picks including from people who normally don't play dps/tank. You've also got people who seem to be 'projectile' players (like Seagull with Genji/Hanzo/Mei), Genji specialists (ShaDowBurn/Kruise/Shadder2k/Agilities), Tracer mains (mikeya, ieatuup, Surefour, Baconjack, Silkthread, although I'm sure all of these would be playing something else if Tracer wasn't meta) and hitscan mains (Taimou, Vallutaja, AKM, iddqd). And then you've got people like Flow3r who seem to be able to play everything.

edit: forgot some words
I'd recommend at least 1 tank, 1 healer, 1 dps so you're able to fill gaps in your team comp when necessary.
Being good with one in each category is the minimum I believe. Then having a pretty good backup for a couple of categories. 
I would say there is no reason not to get yourself comfortable on Lucio, Mercy, and Zenyatta. Likewise Orisa or Rein and Zarya or D.Va. For DPS I'd say one main (Soldier, Pharah, McCree) one flanker (Tracer, Genji, Reaper) and one utility (Mei, Sombra, Symettra, Torb) that should give you the flexibility to handle most any situation.
As many as you can handle without sacrificing efficiency. It will vary from person to person.
I like the idea of 'maining' all of them, but not really - I would say pick 3-5, and get *really* good at them, and then get pretty good at the rest. I recommend playing mystery heroes as much as you can (in balance with other gamemodes |qp, comp| of course), and getting as good as you can with every single one.

Then you take a few, and you practice them in qp and take them to comp if you feel ready. I play Zen, Genji and Zarya, (all of which I love playing, I recommend taking your likes into consideration) and I usually use Zarya as my instalock hero, but only on certain maps. I have a few maps for each of those heroes that I instalock on, mostly because they're good on those maps/I do good on those maps on them.

Basically, play all of them but pick carefully which ones you "main"
If you want to learn heroes in order to help the team no matter what, here is what you do:

Main Support = Learn Mercy, Ana, Lúcio, Zenyatta and Sombra. Get the hang of each one and always have the right pick for the team.

Main Tank = Learn Reinhard, Orisa, Zarya, D.va and Winston.

Main DPS = Pick the 3~5 that you feel really comfortable having at least 1 hit scan, 1 flanker/diver, 1 controller (Crowd Control, like stuns or things that allow you to protect an specific area).


No matter what you main, play at least 30minutes on each hero (if you have time, aim for 5 hours on each one). And, you should always know how to play the easy heroes like Lúcio, Mercy and Soldier 76 in order to fill in last cases no matter what is your main
All of them 
Well, you want to know how to play every hero to a decent level so that you can fill if needed. But honestly, as a GM player myself, and having been told this by many T500/semi/pro players, if your goal is to climb the ladder, pick one single hero to main and then pick a second character to become pretty good at. For example, pick Mcree and become a Mcree God, but know how to play Soldier 76 on the side. Or pick Ana and become an Ana God, but know how to play Zen or Mercy. In my opinion this is the best way to climb the ladder and become the best player you can. Of course you can branch out once you become good at your main, but if your goal is to climb, sticking to this one main as much as possible will allow you to climb.

In my case, I main Genji and play Genji in 90% of my games. In the other 10% I play a combination of Doomfist,s76 and Ana.
1 flanker, 1 hitscan, 1 main tank, 1 offtank, and preferrably one or two healers
Yup. And pick *different style* heroes for your DPS. One good defensive DPS (Mei, Hanzo, Symm) and one good offensive (Soldier, McCree, Pharah, Tracer).
Your main heroes perfectly match mine. What rank are you?
Thanks for putting this way of thinking out there. I want to believe that the game was developed, advertised and intended to be played like the second option you described. A game that rewards versatility and hero variety. This is the reason why I get so frustrated when I see that it is possible to be successful (in the sens of game imact and competitive rating) by playing only one or two heroes but to an almost unhealthy extent. When it get's to the point that people say "I am Genji" "I am Ana" I just think to myself that they totally failed the game. You are none of the heroes, you did not choose a class in this game to play you are an Overwatch player. That's why I am fond of thinking that a one- or twotrick D.Va might be a phenomenal D.Va but an exceptionally bad player. Which leads me to the conclusion that you shouldn't be at the rank you achieved by playing this one hero because you should be ranked as a player and not as a hero. I don't just want to not-reward extreme maining (I avoid the onetrick term because spending 60% of your time on one single hero is basically just as worse imo) I want to punish it. Then again I am really not satisfied with how the game has developed over the last few months, hence my radical thinking.
Also, by learning each character you'll learn first hand how to counter each character because it's going to happen to you.
If you want to end up high on the ladder you may also drop the "defensive" DPS style. If you are a good 76 and a good Genji you are more than likely to fit into a team. Hanzo, Symmetra and Mei all are very situational.
currently around 2700 plat, i haven't had much time in s4 and s5 to play, my peak was at almost 3300 
You might enjoy this:

>And then also, one just minor housekeeping note: we really encourage that when you play Overwatch to switch heroes often. Overwatch is not a game where you have to lock into a hero at the beginning of the map and then you can’t swap half of them. You can swap heroes every single life that you are out there. We actually encourage players to do that, it is actually the best and right way to play the game.

~ [Jeff Kaplan](http://overwatch.blizzplanet.com/blog/comments/blizzcon-2014-overwatch-unveiled-panel-transcript/4)

The reason one-tricking is so successful, imo, is because everybody does it.  It ends up being one-tricks vs one-tricks.
Exactly. Don't pick widow and Hanzo as your 2 DPS or you'll have a bad time (and your team will hate you). But also, McCree and 76 have a similar function, though that's less problematic.
Then we are very similar you and I. Good luck in the future.
to you too

Feeling like I am stuck and not improving... (3400-3700 SR)
Hey.. so I am playing this game since launch and season 1. And really if I am honest with you all I play this game for is the comp. It what hypes me and makes me enjoy it. I like taking the challenge. I can play arcade from time to time for lootboxes and VERY rarely quickplay but all I play is mostly comp. (But I must admit I really enjoy the new Deathmatch mode and will definitely use it as a practice before entering comp)

But the thing is, I want to get into the high level of the game but I fail to, and I wanna find out why and solve it. My SR is floating around low-semi masters if I am lucky and if I am not I'll probably be laying in my usual territory semi to high diamond.

I don't main, since release I just played and tried all the characters, because that's how I felt the game should be played (even after a new character was added), so I guess I am basically flex but it depends on my mindset, sometimes I'll just want to lock DPS sometimes I will have no problem with healing or tanking. I don't have a certain character I play a lot but I can say genji is definitely one of my favorites, but I can pick any other dps if I get countered.

I feel like I am losing my spot in comp due to some stupid shit I do. Sometimes I like to 3-6 stack with pals or play with very low plat friends but usually it leads with us losing games because premade games are insanely challenging and if I play with plat friends sometimes they don't wanna heal so I am forced to and I feel like I can carry on healing but not as much as if I was the one doing damage and killing.

But I feel like I am tired of this, I've been stuck in diamond/low master for too long and I wanna reach GM, and not only that even stay consistently around this range (3900-4200), so I ask for tips from you guys - How did you climb the ELO ladder ? Did you go decide to say goodbye to premade games and only soloq or duo-q with a good player? (Because trio queue+ leads to harder games). Did you decide to just stop flexing and focusing all your skill and what you got and mastering one character or a very small group of a few consistenly? I feel like I can reach it if I analyze my problem and get some dedication to more try-harding.

Also, does getting new perephials help you climb? I feel like I play on a pretty basic rig, I got a basic logitech keyboard, an okay steelseries gaming mouse, a big QcK Heavy pad (Considering maybe purchasing a bigger pad due to me running out of it), pc specs which can draw 100-144fps in all maps. (I like capping it at 144) and a 77hz monitor.

Thanks for reading and I appreciate any tips that helped you climb after you've been stuck.Some things to consider:

1) Only play comp with friends that are as good as you or better if you're trying to climb. Have a smurf account for playing with your lesser skilled friends. 
2) Try to duo-queue, max, if you're going to play with someone. 
3) Specialize in a select few heroes. It's unrealistic to expect to be able to play every hero at the grandmaster level (mentioned since this is your goal). The more fun you have with these heroes, the better, as it'll prevent burnout. 
4) As for specs, as long as something isn't actively bothering you, don't worry about upgrading. For example, my old Steel Series mouse left button felt really sticky and unsatisfying to click, so I got a FK1. I felt like the QcK mouse pad wasn't big enough, so I got a bigger one. I felt like the screen looked like shit whenever I did a 180 degree turn, so I got a 144hz monitor. But if you're not consciously seeing these things as problems, don't worry about it. 
I'm not someone as high as you (touched diamond with fucking Win-ston), but it seems you flex more than necessary to me. While I was gold, I couldn't carry my way out of my tier unless I focused on feelings: "It feels great to be always 100 energy as Zarya because of the enemy junkrat", "I'm setting up kills for Tracer and Genji because I do a little damage to the enemy squishies, my ally (the flanker) can see me and they can finish the job while calling it out on voice chat".
What I'm saying is you may be using a brush when you are in need of a hammer to nail the enemy, like you see a mistake in your tier (you know it is one) and you pick the appropriate character to punish it as hard as you can. I feel that's the way to climb rank until high high tiers (I have never been in one). Maybe it is the way for you.

I personnaly don't think you need to know everything to climb and while you may learn things while stagnating, it is frankly better to outskill quickly people to learn better things with higher ratted players in mobas. If you brute force your way somewhere, you belong there for eternity (except broken heroes duuuuh).

When I was climbing, I was outright counter picking the enemy line-up (Zarya vs Junkrat tier) or I played one character while using the mic to tell them ez things to understand while not sounding too annoying (Winston). Those things I communicated where from Qwark28 vod reviews (I strongly recommand), especially the state of the fights. Like "go in", "mercy dead, let´s fucking go", "this fucking lucio now", "Im stalling this point with primal rage".... While using mic is scary, it's so fucking good because you instantly know (most of time) when you made a bad call or you know your enemies are weak/strong relative to you depending on how much you predict what they do. I believe every word you say on chat has a huge impact on how aware your team become and how on the same page they are. Like calling out shatters, grav, res, someone out of position will move your allies in the right direction.

Vod reviews, actually writting gameplans down to figure out how to repeat stuff you did well, make sure to come up with a reason on why you won or lose this game (to know if you are overwhelmed or not by pressure, thus not improving), training my aim even though Im a tank player, playing with a team in a tournament (playground for people who want to improve), 1vs1 higher ratted player are among the many things I did to improve from gold to diamond.

While what I'm saying may sound fucking basic to you, I hope I helped you somehow.

Edit: solo queue, 70+% winrate with Winston
The first thing that comes to mind is, can you post a video here of your gameplay? Also do you record and analyze your own gameplay? That's probably one of the most useful things you can do and made me climb almost a whole tier last season.

p.s A 144 hz monitor is really godly, I'd really recommend getting one. Also better peripherals (especially headphones) are definitely worth it as well if you ask me
Unless there is a significant point inflation in whatever ELO system Overwatch uses, you shouldn't expect to be climbing indefinitely, even if you are constantly improving as a player, because the other players are improving as well. 

Only if the rate at which you are improving is faster than the average of the players above you, you'll see yourself gaining points; but do you really have a reason to expect that would be the case?


Can't agree with the first thing you said enough. The first 3 seasons I only played comp with my irl friends and I was always only in high plat or low diamond and once the 4th season came around I started only soloing or running with a group I met in QP around my level and now I'm a low master player and now my friends are stuck in gold. I was boosting them to mid plat while I got dragged down a lot.
cheers mate. Helped a lot. I am gonna try harder this season and focus on less characters!

Also if you need help climbing and from EU I don't mind at all ;)
yeah sure I will after season 6 starts.

By the way the thing is, I already got a 23 inch 1080p monitor that works just fine so I don't know if replacing a fully working monitor is worth it. Though I did OC it from 60 to 77hz and it feels so much better.
For starters, he's here, actively trying to improve. That gives him an advantage over the million me of players who will improve solely by inflation. 
> I already got a 23 inch 1080p monitor that works just fine so I don't know if replacing a fully working monitor is worth it.

Trust me bro, it IS worth it. Did the same thing and never looked back again. 
Because getting 144hz will instantly make me a pro /s 

Maybe at the future but not now. Also I got 77hz monitor not 60. I rather spend less money on getting an actual good mouse and pad. I think those will help my aim more.
Well if you are on a budget then sure by all means go for a mouse/pad instead. 

But if you have the money to spend it is very well worth it to get that 144 hz monitor too. 

Crosshair Outlines are here! Thickness 2, Opacity 35 for the old default look.
Comparison: https://i.imgur.com/b0ZNsqo.jpg

35 is an estimate, personally I'm gonna go with something darker. 


&nbsp;

&nbsp;
    
I also made a thread with [crosshair advice](https://www.reddit.com/r/OverwatchUniversity/comments/6pxsf7/choosing_crosshairs_a_comprehensive_guide/) a while ago.That's a great news..

But still no center gap when bloom is activated :(

I can't make a consistent crosshair for hanzo and soldier (the only heroes I would like to use bloom on) and it makes me so sad.
As if such tiny adjustments make you a better aimer.
/rantmenow
Here's something I figured out for that. Put dot and crosshair on, then make the opacity on the dot extremely low. The dot will stay in the middle even with bloom on, and not obstruct your view in any meaningful way.
Actually it helps you aim better. If your comfortable with a specific reticle it eases your aim. There a lot of things that play a role on your aiming and these small adjustments do too. 
Weather or not it actually makes me better it makes me feel better which in turn makes me confident in my shots.... so i mean kinda.
Different crosshairs make a huge difference for me. After playing a ton of the custom AIM servers the last few weeks, I found that if I try to use a circle with tracer then my overall aim immediately takes a 7%+ nosedive and I cannot track for shit anymore. My aim is in the top 2% for my hitscan characters and certain crosshairs are still able to fuck me up even with all of the muscle memory and practice already behind me
dunno if i'm doing this wrong, but I don't think this works.  the crosshair gap stays the same no matter what size i make the dot.
BELIEVE IN YOURSELF MY FRIEND - git er done
I was actually just experimenting with it myself and had the same issue. I think it might have been circle + bloom + crosshairs, but I can't get it right now. 

tips for aiming doomfist's shotguns
hey there, i am trying to get better at doom fist, and have got most of his kit down pat, however i am really struggling to consistently do damage with his shotguns, as i am constantly missing, any tips or advice is greatly appreciatedMost important tip: it's not hitscan, his shotgun is a projectile. Also, each shot deals a maximum of 66 damage, so it doesn't really have much damage. Doomfist should be fine with mostly using his powers, and only really using the cannon for last hits or on cooldown
Use the circle crosshair with accuracy on. It will show you the spread of the gun so you can maximize how much of your enemy is on the circle when aiming.
Also worth noting that his shotguns have no damage drop off
Yeah, you can think of it as a Roadhog gun with less spread and potentially faster fire rate. When aiming at medium-long distances, you have to lead a bit just like you would with Roadhog's alt-fire. 

